# Chapter 1: "Status Quo" by Joseph L. Selby
These events take place following DYV4-03 Urban Renewal in the early summer of CY 594.

The mass of bodies falls through the curtain into a pile on the floor. Arms and legs writhe as they struggle to get free of one another. Within the tangle, four large human men form a protective shell over a smaller woman.
"By Heironeous' axe get off me!" the woman swears. The voice is that of Larissa Hunter, the able-bodied Free Army captain and elected magister of Dyvers. "I said get off of me you fools. There are people on that stage who need our aid!" Although she commands it, the magister's bodyguards continue to hold her to the ground. Hunter, realizing her men are not following orders, renews her struggle in earnest. The mass of bodies begins to writhe again, violently so, until a leather boot steps forward just a foot away, catching Larissa's attention.
"Let her go, boys." The voice oozes with confidence and although she cannot see it, the magister is certain the man's face does the same.
The bodyguards stand up, moving to form a short row behind her. Their faces appear differently than when they had stood on stage. Looking at her hands, Larissa finds a considerable amount of makeup beneath her fingernails. "These are not my men," she says dumbfounded.
"No, they're not," the stranger replies. "And I'm glad you can make that distinction. I was worried that the boys here might rough you up to the point of stupidity, and that wouldn't have done either of us any good." The Oeridian man, standing a few inches shorter than Larissa Hunter, smiled. She is struck by how much he looks like a rat when he smiles and instinctively checks her forearms to see if she has been bitten. "Larissa, sweety, we need to talk." He reaches toward her, the long fingernails looking like claws.
The magister jerks back from his hand, drawing her sword and lunging in the opposite direction. Her blade rests firmly in the belly of one of her faux bodyguards. The look on his face is frozen disbelief, until all his muscles go limp and the weight of his body pulls him from her blade.
"Touch me and I'll gut you like a pig," she growls.
"Your pride's been hurt. I understand that. Consider Tharig my gift to you. We'll call it cost of doing business. But now you'll listen, woman, or you'll share Tharig's fate." The magister looks at her captor's sides, but he has no visible weapons. Out of the corner of her eye, though, she sees the glint of candlelight on steel and knows that her bodyguards have drawn their own weapons. She lowers her longsword, biding her time.
"Where are my men?" she demands.
"They're safe. They're guarding you, actually. Or, at least they were. No doubt the spell has worn off. They've realized our deceit and are rushing here to save you. So let's make haste, shall we? We have business to take care of before your men arrive."
"What do you want? If you hope to exploit me, I'll kill you and your men by myself, or die in the attempt. This city will not tolerate your exploitation." Posturing, the magister is unnerved when the man across from her begins chuckling. "What?" she growls angrily.
"Pardon my lack of manners. Truly, that was just adorable." His composure stiffens and his smile drops away when he sees her bloodied sword begin to rise again. "We're here to speak to you about your speech, actually," the man continues, the smile gone from his face. "It was very uplifting. Very inspiring. 'With the completion of these docks, a new day dawns on the Free and Independent City of Dyvers. A new beginning!' etcetera, etcetera, etcetera."
"What qualms do you have with my speech, rogue?"
"Quite simple, actually. War has broken out in the Baklunish west. Veluna has been invaded by its enemies. The Velverdyva Trade Route and the Irafa Road are closing. Dyvers must depend on its newly restored docks to maintain the flow of trade to the city. And here we find you talking about new beginnings. The docks are rebuilt and we're here to make sure you understand, today isn't a new beginning; it's a return to the life the people of Dyvers learned to love. Trade will flourish again across the Nyr Dyv, more so now that the western routes are closing. We're here to make sure you understand, it's business as usual. The merchants will sell, the people will trade, the gentry will be happy, and you'll still have a job."
"All this charade, just to ensure the status quo? There must be more."
"You're a charismatic leader, Larissa, but not too bright, eh? You inspire people. And after the last two years, people want to be inspired. And that causes problems. That causes waves. And we saw what happened the last time the docks were hit by waves, everything fell apart. And we're here to make sure things don't fall apart. We like Dyvers. And we want to make sure she's safe from…inspiration."
"And if I just kill you and your men instead?"
"I doubt my boss would mind much. And it wouldn't do you any good. My brother-in-law is a cleric. Although if it'll make you feel better, I guess you can take a swing." The man's smile returns as he opens his cloak, exposing his belly. He locks eyes with the magister and the two glare at one another fiercely. As she weighs her decision on whether she should strike the man down, he winks at her and disappears before her very eyes. Swinging around, her "bodyguards" are still there, although two of them are picking up the body of their fallen comrade and are walking toward the exit.
"Sorry about that whole tackling thing. Just playing a part, you know?" the remaining bodyguard says sheepishly. She shoots him a dirty look. "It was a nice speech." Seeing her knuckles whiten about the hilt of her sword, he quickly trots after his friends, not looking over his shoulder. She yells forcefully and swings at where the rat-like man had stood, but her sword cuts nothing but air. The sound of her true bodyguards arresting the imposters brings her little comfort, as she knows they were only pawns. She sits down, and holds her head in her free hand, forgetting about the people she had been so adamant to save only a few moments ago. With the docks repaired, things will return to normal in Dyvers…and it makes her sick to her stomach.

# Chapter 2: "Winter of Our Discontent" by Joseph L. Selby
These events take place following DYV4-08 Linchpin.

It is uncommon in a region as temperate as Dyvers for it to snow. Some claim it is the magical properties of the Nyr Dyv that keep the region warm; others simply claim that the god Telchur never travels this far south. Regardless, the cold white has fallen for three weeks straight, causing many cart vendors to move off the main thoroughfares to more hospitable locations like Evernight Street. The markets open and close as usual, but with fewer urchins or homeless trying to make a quick Wheatsheaf. Frostbite has claimed more than one life already, and unattended cargo on the docks is repeatedly stolen for firewood. Life in the City of Sales has radically changed…in more way than one.
Standing in the market square, two figures—a tall, muscular Suloise man and a little Oeridian waif-girl—stare at a large board. Usually, the board is covered with paper calling for adventurers, mercenaries, and tradesmen for various jobs and opportunities of fortune. Today, though, there is simply one piece of paper.
"Do you know what it says?" the little girl asks.
"No," the man replies matter-of-factly. "Do you?"
"No. I can't read."
"Me either."
They continue to stare at the paper. The snow begins to accumulate on their shoulders.
"Looks important," the girl continues. "I wish I knew what it said."
"Me too," the man replies, his tone unchanged.
"Do you have any money?" the girl asks. "We could pay someone to read it for us."
"Nope. Do you?"
"No." She frowns, letting out a steam-filled sigh. Soon after, the large man lets out his own steam-filled sigh.
They continue to watch the paper as if they might learn its secrets if they stare hard enough. A few minutes pass and the girl begins to shiver. The man looks unaffected. His girth and rough demeanor suggest that he was raised in such an environment, not that it does the little girl any good. She was born in the city, and this is the first time she's ever seen snow.
A halfling approaches, holding a steaming cup of cider. Looking at the odd couple, he follows their gaze and begins staring at the board. He sips his cider, handing the cup to the girl when he notices her shivering. She takes a large gulp and hands it back to him. They continue to look at the paper.
Finally breaking the silence, the halfling speaks up. "What ya doin'?"
"Reading this paper," the man replies gruffly.
"What's it say?" the halfling asks.
"We don't know," the girl says. "We can't read."
"Oh." The halfling sips his cider. They stare at the piece of paper.
"Can you read?" the little girl asks.
"Yeah, I can read," the halfling replies.
"What does it say?" the tall man asks.
"Got any money?" the halfling asks.
"No," the man replies.
"Ah well," is all the halfling says. He takes another sip from his cider and then begins to read the paper.
"A Proclamation: Forthwith, let it be known that in this Common Year 594, Captain Larissa Hunter has abandoned the post of Magister of the City and Free Lands of Dyvers. In accordance with the law, governance of the realm remains in the hands of the Gentry Council until such time as a new magister is elected. Until such time as civic tranquility has been fully restored, the Free and Independent City of Dyvers is under martial law. A curfew to be enforced by the city Constabulary and the Free Army is set for sunset. Violation of this curfew is a non-taxable offense punishable by incarceration. The Gentry Council understands the importance of maintaining and enforcing the laws of the Free Lands in these chaotic days, and we are willing to take what steps are necessary to secure the peace. A new magister will be chosen as swiftly as possible and, gods willing, we will continue on with our lives in health, happiness, and prosperity. Signed Robert Lord Navoy and the Gentry Council of Dyvers."
"Non-taxable, huh?" the Suloise man says dryly.
"Yup."
"Well that's good. I don't much like taxes."
"Me either," the little girl chimes in. The three stare at the paper in silence, their breath filling the air with steam in a steady rhythm. "So what did all that mean?" she asks.
"That means Larissa Hunter isn't magister any more. She left," the halfling answers.
"Oh. Well when is she coming back?"
"She's not," the tall man says, stunned. This is the first time his voice has changed during the course of the entire conversation.
"But she has to come back. She's pretty!" the little girl protests.
"And an expert swordsman," the Suel, heavy with melancholy, says longingly.
"She was Dyvers," the halfling says, his voice choked to nearly a whisper. "She was beauty, valor, bravery, cunning, and everything that is great about this city wrapped into one. …she was the best of us." He hides his face in his empty cup of cider. The tears freeze on his cheek as he quietly leaves the two at the board, making his way home to mourn in private.
"Well it's not fair!" the little girl shouts. "She can't leave! She just can't! And… and I'm going to go tell her so!" The waif marches resolutely into the haze of white, disappearing from view. Her body will eventually be found huddled under a pile of trash, overcome by the cold.
The large man of the north had traveled from his frigid homeland to find glory and fortune in a new land of sun and adventure. It seems that, in his travels, the winter-god Telchur followed him to the City of Dyvers. His land of opportunity is now as cold and desolate as the home he left behind. He walks the streets, unsure of where to go next, overwhelmed by the city's sorrow. He sees it on the faces of every person he passes. The loss of the magister is unbearable, and they would cry if it weren't so cold.

# Chapter 3: "Fals River" by Joseph L. Selby
These events take place preceding Dyv5-01 Setting in the West.

To the north, the Kingdom of Furyondy. To the south, the Archlericy of Veluna. In between? An army of undead, devils, and orcs lead by a dead Raoan Canon-made-lich, the Velverdyva River…and profit.
The ship Intrepid, out of Maraven, glides up the Velverdyva River, moving like a shadow across the water. The moon is in its monthly state of eclipse and all sources of light have been extinguished on deck. A crew mixed with a variety of unscrupulous humanoids (half-elves, half-orcs, and a few of their full-blooded kin)—all with preternatural vision—navigates using what little light is given by the stars above. Atop the Intrepid's mast, a great standard of the Free Lands of Dyvers flaps in the night wind. The crew has been ordered to silence in an effort not to disturb the sleeping army to the north, a barrier between the West and the Empire of Iuz. The sailors are on edge, not so much due to the pressure they feel to be silent, but because they know where they're headed. They're quickly approaching one of the major tributaries to the Velverdyva, the Fals River. The Fals marks the northern border of Veluna, passing the city of Whitehale and the great Castle Sepher on its journey to the Yatil Mountains. Whitehale used to be the gem of northern Veluna and Castle Sepher a wonder of modern construction, finished only two short years ago. Now, they're a testament to the horrors that have beset the home of Rao's chosen people. Overrun by orcs, undead, and innumerable devils. Human life has been extinguished in these cities. No more than a few slaves remain and even they consider themselves dead.
Veluna has been dealing with raiding orcs for years now. It was a constant threat to their livelihood. But it was only a prelude of the devastation to come. The northern half of the country overrun, the Holy City of Mitrik divided in half, the south belonging to the hellish army, the north still controlled by the Archclericy. But that city is miles away. The Fals River leads to Castle Sepher. There is no Velunan military force there. No adventurers. No Knights of the Hart. Only orcs…and worse.
The fork arrives and the ship slows to a stop, matching the river's current. Without a sound, Captain Jyarl—a burly half-orc with large tusks and very few human features—signals to his elven first mate, Aeis. The Dyvers colors are dropped, folded, and stored. Shortly thereafter a new flag rises in the darkness, a red face so horrible as to be confused with no other standard, the banner of Turrosh Mak's Pomarj and the subjugated Wild Coast. With a wave of his hand, the ship begins to move again, veering due west, off of the Velverdyva and onto the Fals. As the wind dies from the sails, oars reach into the water and force the ship up the river, overpowering its current. The docks of Castle Sepher are not far.
With the colors switched and the Furyondian coast vanishing in the pitch black of night, the call to silence is ended. "I want to make port before midnight, boys. Put your backs to the oars!" Captain Jyarl howls. "Bring the cargo above decks nice and proper near the gang plank. I want to get our business done with and back home as quickly as possible. I'll be Vecna's right eye before I let some ghoul make me his plaything."
The sailors snap into action, hauling 12 large crates from the hull of the ship onto the deck. Below, a drum beats a fast tempo and the powerful oarsmen fall into a rhythm. The ship surges forward, slips back, surges forward, and slips back, fighting the current of the Fals. Jyarl turns to his first mate and whispers, "Fools me what an army of undead need with weapons and armor. Let's make this quick and clean and get back to Maraven as soon as possible. I don't want to be standing on the docks when those hellspawn realize a dead orc makes a good zombie."
The crew works with expert proficiency and the Intrepid sets sail from Castle Sepher only an hour past midnight, hull empty, a sizeable chest of coin and a few magic items the only cargo left on board. Jyarl sighs with relief. He is still waiting for the day when the ship does not return to the waters of Dyvers and he and his crew are added to the mindless rank and file undead of the Velunan invaders. But for now, the job is done. The trip back to Maraven will be quick; sailing with the current always makes things easier. With the moon past its zenith, the wind shifts. It promises to be a short return home.
Whether his thoughts lingered on the evil he left behind or his good spirits for having survived the encounter distracted him, the half-orc captain is unprepared when a keen-eyed half-elf on the rigging breaks silence and shouts "Sail ho!" Jyarl looks up at the rigging. The sailor is pointing portside. The Intrepid reached the Velverdyva as a large ship flying a Furyondian banner moves to intercept. Jyarl looks aft to see the Dyvers colors finish their assent. Did they see the ship change colors? Would a patrol vessel ever believe that a ship from the Pomarj successfully passed both Greyhawk City and Dyvers unmolested all the way to the Fals?
"Archers port and aft! Make full sail boys; we make Maraven tonight, Furyondy be damned!" The crewmen begin to whoop and holler as their blood starts to rush. Although sailors by trade, the crew's orcish instincts tell them to turn and fight. Only Jyarl's imposing figure standing by the helm keeps order. They grin with satisfaction, though, when they see the captain pull out a longbow that a lesser man could barely heft, much less draw. "Aeis, put some wind in our sails!"
As the archers take their positions as ordered, Jyarl stomps behind them. "No one fires until I say. First man to disobey is thrown to the crocodiles." They stand ready, muscles tense, waiting for the order to let fly. First Mate Aeis stands on the quarterdeck, a scroll in his left hand. As he recites the incantation, the archaic letters burn a brilliant gold and then vanish. As he finishes his recitation, a massive wind fills the sails and the Intrepid lurches forward, the mainmast straining under the pressure.
The Furyondian patrol ship, Peerless, slips out of bow range as the magic wind distances its prey from it. A crew of mostly humans, it is difficult for them to track the rogue ship they found sneaking out of the Fals. With orders to sink any ships the Velunan invaders may have acquired, usually any ships they intercept are smugglers hoping to make a profit off of Veluna's misery or temple raiders pillaging the abandoned temples of Whitehale. Captain Eimanus, a hardy Oeridian man who's spent more years on a ship than on land, says "Mijaian!" forcefully, and the steel box on his hip transforms itself into a suit of plate armor. Prepared for battle, he barks orders to his crew.
"Marines to the starboard rail. When they lose their wind, we'll have them. Smugglers are no match for the Royal Navy. Keep your focus and we all make port tonight!" The crew of the Peerless follow the captain's orders with expert precision. They are disappointed, though, when the smuggler's ship maintains its distance. Even with their magical wind gone, the rising sun brings rising winds and the ships ride the Velverdyva to the mouth of the mighty river.
Captain Eimanus bites his lip when he sees the northern shoreline begin to drift away. They are entering the Nyr Dyv. His first mate, Borsyl, looks at him expectantly, having seen the same. "Captain? Do we follow?" Eimanus hesitates for a moment, weighing his duty as a Furyondian officer and knowing the difficulty he will have enforcing his jurisdiction when capturing a smuggler in the waters of Dyvers, complicated more so by the lax nature in which the local law deals with smugglers.
"Captain?" Borsyl asks again.
Stemming his frustration of Dyvers law, Captain Eimanus is struck by a moment of clarity. "Keep to the coast. There will be a small port by mid-day. We'll dock there and take this matter to the local magistrate."
"The local magistrate? Not to be impertinent captain, but how could the magistrate of such a small village help us with this matter?"
"His name is Enruhl Leardyn." The first mate stares blankly. "Sir Enruhl Leardyn, Lord of Westguard and Knight of the Hart. If there is anyone in this den of thieves that will aid us in our mission, it will be he. We make port!" The Peerless is left behind, hearing the taunting howl of the Intrepid crew as the smugglers continue on to their destination.
Passing the metropolis of Dyvers, the Intrepid eventually makes port in the eastern village of Maraven. Waiting anxiously on the docks, a lanky human dressed in servant's robes watches the ship as its moorings are tied off.
"Hail Captain Jyarl. Were you successful in your mission?" the servant shouts as the gangplank is lowered.
"By the gods, man, I have yet to set foot ashore and already you prattle in my ear. Let me feel land beneath me again and I'll answer your question. Continue to act like a pest and I'll crush you like the fly you are," the captain growls.
"Things did not go well then?" the servant continues, discarding the half-orc's threats.
"The delivery was made and your master's payment is aboard, Thurgen. We incurred extra cost on the journey, depleting a number of magic scrolls to outdistance a Furyondian patrol ship."
"Yes, yes," Thurgen says dismissively. "You will be compensated as long as full payment has been made. There are some particular items my master has been anxious to receive. If you'll excuse me, captain, I should make haste to deliver them to him." The servant pushes past the half-orc, sure enough in his master's power that he does not excuse himself when his shoulder collides with the captain's heavily muscled arm.
"I'll eat your marrow some day, worm." The captain's temper flares.
"Well, won't that be a treat," is all Thurgen replies.

# Chapter 4: "Family Ties" by Joseph L. Selby
These events take place following DYV5-02 Rising in the East.

The meal is simple for the people seated at the table. Roast beef, baked fish, a wedge of cheese, and half a loaf of bread. A small clay bottle holds enough Leardynian Gold wine for one cup each. Wooden spoons are placed in wooden bowls as the group finishes its soup. The matron, an elderly woman with gray hair and a simple dress and apron, stands from her seat at the end of the table. She collects the used bowls, taking them to a wash basin. Beginning at the head of the table, the obvious patron of the household sits silently, staring at the wall as his wife takes his bowl and wipes his lip clean with her thumb. He does not acknowledge her efforts nor does he make conversation with the two men sitting on either side of the table. Old in their own right, the two men still seem young and spry compared to the elderly couple. In truth, the man and wife still consider the young men young boys, as most parents tend to regard their children throughout life. This is made most evident when the matron collects the elder son's bowl, stopping with a scowl on her face.
"What do you call this?' she asks. Her Suloise accent is thick, unchanged from decades spent in a racially diverse metropolis.
"It's only a spoonful mother. I didn't want any more," the son replies.
"I raised you better than this. You could feed all the homeless in this city with all the food wasted in such a fashion. You'll finish your soup or I'll have the rest of your meal given to charity. Obviously you're no longer hungry."
Reluctantly, the man takes his spoon and collects the last of the bowl's contents. Looking across the table, his younger brother is clearly gloating. The elder man furrows his brow.
"That's better," his mother coos. "That's a good lad."
"If you insist that I eat everything on my plate, mother, I respectfully decline my portion of fish. You know my distaste for the vile creatures. Truly anything taken from the sea is dirty, unfit for human consumption.
Now it is the younger brother's turn to glare. He begins to rise, but a motherly hand on the shoulder presses him back to his seat. She throws him a knowing look. He straightens his robes and regains his composure.
"I received an invitation to a banquet at Lord Darian Kesser's city manor. Is it right to assume he hopes to address the recent tragedies?" she asks as she sets wooden plates in front of everyone.
The younger son takes a knife and begins to parcel out generous portions of fish to his parents. He inhales deeply before speaking. "He has invited the entire Gentry Council and their families. It could be that he hopes to make a ploy for the open seat of Magister. With families present, much of the usual gentry bickering will be hamstrung by their efforts to save face in public."
The elder son takes a separate knife and cuts equally generous portions of the beef, offering his own speculation. "I find it unlikely Kesser would be so emboldened. I have repeatedly heard tell that the gentryman has been implicated in slave traffic. It could be that he merely hopes to address these rumors in a public setting. Or it could be that he hopes to force the gentry to deal with the tumultuous state of Dyversian politics. The Knights of the Hart stationed all these months in the west and now Greyhawk pressing in from the east. Times are uncertain and people are nervous. Such tension is not good for trade."
"It is odd, though," the mother continues, "that your father and I would be invited. We are neither noble nor gentry. Have you been invited?"
"I have been asked to say the opening prayer," the boys say in unison, turning to each other with looks of both surprise and anger.
"What prank is this you play, Asyth. What need would the council have for you if I am present?
"Cleary, Jereader, they need someone to spare them your ego. Perhaps my presence will remind you that the Money Counter is not the only god represented in this city. You are one of many."
"Many, yes, Asyth, but if not for the faithful of the Great Guildmaster, this city would be lost to the senseless meanderings of your sailors who like to pretend to be priests. Trade does not only come across the Bottomless Lake. Your usefulness ends at the docks, brother."
"Perhaps they invited your parents to remind the two of you that you were both in diapers once. I have no more qualms bending you over my knee now than I did then, Gentry Council or no." She lets go of her fork, sighing in exasperation.
"Mother, I'm the high priest of the Cathedral of the Great Guildmaster! It is not funny to jest of such a thing."
"And I am the high priest of the Cathedral of the Sea Dragon!"
"And you both presume that I jest. Your father and I willfully chose to raise you in our respective faiths. Had I known it would lead to years of bickering and posturing, I would have gladly allowed your father to teach you both."
"Mother, you shouldn't say such a thing. To deny Him like this!"
"Shush, Asyth." She sips her wine, taking a moment to calm herself. "You both see what's happening. You need not attempt to keep the wool over our eyes. Kesser has asked for both of you to be in attendance. Gentry and their families are dead. The Magister is still missing and little has been decided on how to replace her. Even less has been done to find her." She pauses, looking at her elder son. He casts his eyes to his plate and rolls a piece of beef back and forth with his fork. "The type of politics being played here doesn't win or lose a few wheatsheafs. People's lives are in the balance. Perhaps the entire city. Few city officials are trusted outside of the council, but the two of you are trusted by all parties, from Grandhearth to Pengallen. What greater opportunity have you been given in your lives?
The boys sit, silently, stunned by their mother's directness. She speaks as more than a mother, but as genuine counsel who understands the gravity of what's happening.
"Many people could die if this isn't handled properly. You must set aside your rivalry and focus on the endeavor at hand. Dyvers needs you."
As if emerging from a thick fog, the elderly man sitting at the head of the table begins to move slightly. His eyes show a moment of clarity as he focuses on his wife, taking in her look of grief. "Politics and war are simply two other forms of trade," he says gruffly, his voice hoarse from lack of use. "One uses a currency of words and the other lives; the trick is to spend yours more efficiently than your opponent." His eyes glaze over again and he forgets his family. The two men watch their father disappear again. They turn to their mother. If she were a lesser person, they know she would cry. They look at each other. The high priests of Zilchus and Xerbo, the two most powerful churches in Dyvers, pick up their wooden forks and finish their meals in silence.

# Chapter 5: "Ties that Bind" by Joseph L. Selby
These events take place preceding DYV5-03 Dining with the Dragon.

The ship slides up to the docks of Caltaran. Settled snuggly between Dyversian merchant vessels, the ship's Furyondian flag flies in stark contrast to its neighbors. The wind blows briskly, causing the fabric to snap loudly. Merchant traffic from Furyondy is not uncommon and this is not the only foreign standard flying today. But with the recent actions of Enruhl Lord Leardyn allowing the Knights of the Hart to keep a small contingent of soldiers at Westguard, the red and blue standard draws more attention than it used to.
The gangplank lowers to the pier and the captain makes way for the ship's only passenger. An older man steps from a carriage below and approaches the gangplank with proud, confident steps. A young man walks with equal confidence across the deck and his footfalls make a loud thumping as he departs the vessel. He thanks the captain as he passes, but his eyes do not leave the gentryman waiting below.
Reaching the dock, the young man kneels formally. "Lord Grandhearth, I am your humble servant," Ethane Leardyn says.
"Welcome home, young man," Klabert Lord Grandhearth says, beaming with affection. "Now come, cousin. Stand. Stand. I will not make my family suffer formality after returning from abroad." The gentryman embraces the young man, clutching his shoulders firmly and looking him up and down. "My carriage waits. We will dine at my manor before you return home tomorrow. Your father is left to my wife's conversation. I am sure he is in need of rescuing."
"My father? He's in Caltaran?" The boy's shock is clearly displayed on his face.
"Yes," Grandhearth replies matter-of-factly. "Since the magister's disappearance, he travels quite frequently. The Gentry Council believes that it is important we keep a strong, united, and consistent public appearance so that the populous does not fear an eventual collapse of government. After the Winter Riots, there is a sense of underlying unrest. People are waiting for Hunter's return as a symbol of stability."
"So there is still no word? I was asked repeatedly during my trip to Furyondy about the magister's whereabouts. Rumors are beginning to spread. There are stirrings abroad, fears whispered in shadows."
"So it was just like home then, eh lad?" Klabert cracks a wide smile at the wry joke. It quickly falls when Ethane returns a pained look rather than one of amusement.
"My lord, Dyvers has never had a sterling reputation. We're regarded as criminals and malcontents."
"The concerns of foreign courts are their matter, not ours. The Free Lands are proud of our independence. We would not accept an imposed social role any more than we would foreign rule. Let them whisper. The courts always clamor for the newest gossip. When a magister sits on the throne again, they will find something else to fret over." Grandhearth's disposition sours a bit and he turns to stair out the window of his carriage. He received similar reports from his allies abroad. Dyvers' continued lack of centralized leadership is beginning to affect trade, making the guilds and their satellites upset. "As this is a conversation I have with your father regularly," he continues, "I say we save this for the dinner table and discuss rather your time in Chendl until we reach Grandhearth Manor. Your trip lasted much longer than I expected. You must fancy life there."
"Chendl is an amazing city, cousin, although plagued with its own troubles. If not for Joramy's unjust punishment of Furyondy, I could wander the streets of Chendl for weeks and not lack for interest. House Maltrus certainly earned their nobility with their efforts in the city's design. I would be so bold to argue that it surpasses Dyvers in beauty and culture."
Lord Grandhearth's smile falls away a second time, his jaw subtly clenching shut. He stares at the boy for a moment, but Ethane Leardyn's attention is drawn to a small flock of sheep being herded by Dagby shepherd dogs. The nobleman probes a bit deeper. "Your affection certainly explains your length in stay then."
"Please, cousin Klabert, if we're truly to dispense of formality, then we both know the reason for my extended stay. My father's disposition seems directly related to my proximity. I've only just returned from Furyondy and I find that he's traveling from the Westlands repeatedly. I would not be surprised to find a bottle of Leardynian Gold in his hand before my second boot has touched the floor of your front hall."
A silence falls over the pair that is not broken until Maenda—Lord Grandhearth's second wife—greats them at the top of the drive. Enruhl Lord Leardyn leans casually in the doorway of Grandhearth manor, watching the half-elf woman welcome her husband and his young cousin home from the docks. Once free of Lady Grandhearth's embrace, Ethane is taken off-guard when his father follows suit, going so far as to kiss his son on the cheek. The sun breaks the horizon, and the group quickly retreats to the dining hall for a late supper. Once there, Klabert Grandhearth renews the previous conversation where it left off.
"I was speaking to your son on our journey here regarding his time in Chendl, cousin Enruhl. He seems to have taken quite a fancy to the city." With years of politics under his belt, only the most seasoned diplomat or rogue could decipher the complete meaning of Grandhearth's statement.
"And with good reason, cousin Klabert," Leardyn responds. "I remember his reaction the first time I took him to Furyondy. It was very similar to mine the first time I saw Chendl. Regardless of any rivalry that may exist between our two countries, no man could contend that it is not an amazing city." Lady Maenda raises her glass and the four toast the eloquent exchange. Ethane raises an eyebrow when he notices that his father's glass is not filled with Leardynian Gold, but water.
"Your disposition seems much improved father, since my departure," the son says cautiously to his father.
"A lot has happened since you left, Ethane," Lord Leardyn replies. "Although he had fought in the defense of the Free Lands many times before, no one would now dare challenge the loyalty of Sir Robil Kelso, who died in the defense of Westguard, regardless of his association with the Knights of the Hart. The magister herself regularly spoke in private of her displeasure of Westguard's association with Furyondy. I am now relieved of the constant gossip mongering. With Derreg Lord Pengallen seizing the easternmost manors for Maraven, it is more imperative than ever that the Westlands act as a bastion of honor and loyalty when others hope to take advantage of our situation for their own profit."
"So you feel the Knights of Furyondy to be a boon to Dyvers?" Ethane asks, still cautiously.
"Their presence still causes a commotion in Dyvers proper, but the Westlands have benefited from their presence. I think if the citizens were to meet the knights and their men first hand, they might appreciate that they are willing to allow us to live freely and in peace. I wonder how much of their annexationist views have been exaggerated."
Neither Enruhl Leardyn nor Klabert Grandhearth miss Ethane's reaction to this final comment. His eyes quickly dart to his plate and he allows the conversation to die, hoping that Lady Maenda will move the subject in more palatable direction.
"Ethane was telling me that there are whispers in the foreign courts. That our lack of centralized leadership is causing foreign unrest," Klabert says, pushing the conversation forward. Ethane knows what they want and does not hesitate to answer openly and honestly.
"Lord Grandhearth speaks truly, father. There are concerns abroad, rumors of secret naval outposts on foreign shores, of the eastern border of Dyvers collapsing to the underworld element from Greyhawk City, and a new riot coming with each passing season. They fear that if the Gentry Council is not able to keep control of Dyvers, the subversive element of the city might take control. Marginal progress has been made in the war against Old Wicked and none of the Border States would see a second enemy appear behind them."
"Ah, the subversive element," Klabert says sarcastically.
"Yes cousin," Ethane says forcefully, offended by Lord Grandhearth's condescension. "It is well known that the remnants of the Temple of Elemental Evil are hiding in the city. We openly grant property to a temple dedicated to the Reaper, and assassins from Greyhawk are regularly crossing our borders. This element must be dealt with if we are to prosper." Ethane locks eyes with his father, looking for some type of affirmation. The boy becomes conflicted and his attitude sullen. He sees it in his father's face, the lord of the western border agrees with him, but does not have the resolve to follow through with what is necessary. What little resolve he had was drowned in wine. Ethane only hopes that his father's new disposition might finally give him the courage to act.
"Could I ask, Ethane," Maenda Grandhearth says, drawing his attention, "how you would identify and remove this element? In a metropolis as large as Dyvers, it would be impossible."
"Not so, cousin Maenda," he replies, his spirits lifting. "The Invincible gives men the means of finding this element. They must only have the resolve to act." Ethane turns to his father and the two lock eyes again. "Honor, valor, and resolve make a great man. And great men make a great society. My father told me that when I first left for the Furyondian War College. He was right...as long as they have the courage to act."

# Chapter 6: "Come Hells or High Water" by Joseph L. Selby

The robes were considered to be the finest made in all of Dyvers; grander than any gentryman's or merchant's. Now, what remains of the tattered robes are stained with blood, dirt, and sulfur. Propped up against a large rock, Asyth and Jereader Zomawyn gasp for air. Their lungs burn with acidic fire and their muscles scream for rest. Knowing their task is incomplete, they expend what little magic is necessary to stop the bleeding, not that they could do much else. Their fight with the devil-cambion has expended much of their resources as the trio waged war through the streets of Dyvers, above the city, and now, in a different plane of existence. Neither of the Zomawyn brothers are exactly sure how the tear in the fabric of Oerth opened, but they knew they could not let the cambion escape after his part in the tragedy befallen the City of Sails.
"When mother told us to save the city, I don't think this is what she had in mind," the elder Jereader says sarcastically.
"Unless the Merchant's Guild has been conducting secret negotiations with the Nine Hells of Baator, I'd have to agree," Asyth replies, removing what little remains of his shirt. The golden, jewel-encrusted dragon turtle atop his chest hangs in stark contrast to his bloodied, mud-caked skin. "I've lost sight of him," the Xerboan high priest continues, returning the conversation to a more serious note.
"Your trident drew blood, I think. Perhaps he fears our ceaseless hunt. Whatever power protected him before has not followed him here." The Zilchan high priest sighs with relief when the bleeding on his back is finally arrested.
"He has completed his foul purpose. Perhaps that is all he was meant for. Your last invocation had a visible effect on him. He is vulnerable now."
"The good that will do us," Jereader retorts gruffly. "I have little spell power left and I wonder if my prayers will reach the Great Guildmaster in this accursed place." The high priest looks up, although the skies of Baator are not the same as those of Oerth.
"Save your prayers, brother. We are not finished yet." Asyth removes an overly large belt lined with numerous small pouches and hands it to his older brother. Jereader opens one of the pouches cautiously, through force of habit, regardless of his religious rival being his only friend in hell.
"By the Guildmaster!" Jereader exclaims as he pulls a handful of pearls from one of the pockets.
"Take what you need. There is more than enough," Asyth says matter-of-factly.
"How is this possible?"
"They're pearls, Jereader." The younger Zomawyn stares at his slack-jawed sibling. "I am the high priest of a sea god. Now shut your mouth. Yours are the nine pouches on the left.'
"Mine?"
"Every year since I was 15 I've sent you a pearl for your birthday, and every year you tell me you have no interest in the filth dredged up from the sea. Thirty years makes thirty pearls."
"By the Guildmaster!"
"You said that already."
"I always thought it was the same pearl every year. I assumed you had spent all your coin on that boat of yours," the Zilchan says, still struggling with his surprise.
"Boat? The Cathedral of the Sea Dragon is not a boat," Asyth says crossly.
"Take no offense, brother. I am sure it's a nice boat."
"If you weren't busy putting huge gold seals on every wooden door you come across, perhaps you could afford a boat as well, you sanctimonious—"
The two are quickly reminded that they are not at the supper table taking innocent jabs at one another, but in one of the foulest places conceivable. A blood-curdling scream draws their attention over the boulder they've been using as a windbreak. Sounding like the death throes of the purest maiden, what they find on the other side of the rock couldn't even be compared to human. The mass of creeping ooze and teeth could only be described as the substance of the vilest nightmares, but the carnage it unleashes on an invading incubus belies any description either Zomawyn brother could offer.
Pearls spill to the ground, and the two set to replenishing their spells, returning themselves to health as they do so. As Asyth refastens the belt around his waist, the priests hear the flapping wings of their quarry. It seems the brief respite they offered him was enough to rekindle his fighting spirit. The two grab their weapons in one hand and their holy symbols in the other and leap from behind the rock to confront the cambion. They stop quickly in their tracks at what they find waiting for them. Indeed, the half-fiend has returned, but with an ally. For all their years, neither cleric has ever witnessed a lord of the pit before now. The tales they heard from adventurers unfortunate enough to survive the experience were not encouraging, that is, when there was enough of a mind left to recount such a tale.
The thunder of the beast's hellish tail pounding the ground snaps both of them out of their dumbfounded malaise but does little to restore their confidence. The cambion stands behind the pit fiend, a gloating look of satisfaction clear on his horrid face.
"You take the one in the front; I'll take the one in the back," Jereader says jokingly, hoping to find courage in sarcasm.
"I will miss my boat," Asyth replies. His knuckles whiten about his trident, and he charges the fiendish duo, his brother Jereader at his side. Only the most skillful bard could recount what happens next. Seconds feel like hours as every spell, every swing of a sword, and every crack of sulfur-filled thunder moves in slow motion. Having survived the initial charge, the priests find some hope in the bleak landscape of the hells. Witnessing their resolve, the cambion leaves nothing to chance, joining the fray and lending his own arcane might to the pit fiend's already unstoppable rage.
The tide of battle quickly turns as the two clerics are overwhelmed. Standing back to back, the brothers slowly step in a circle, trying to keep their assailants in check. Seemingly, the final blow strikes when the fiend's tail splinters Jereader Zomawyn's holy symbol. Zilchus' hand about the pouch of gold falls like tears to the charred ground. He shouts in horror, but is cut short when he feels the pressure against his back disappear. He turns to see his brother lying limp on the ground.
"Asyth?" Jereader exclaims.
"You were a fool to follow me here, Zilchan. Your god does not come here. He has forsaken you." The high priest turns to see the cambion standing above him, the creature's confidence restored with the certainty of victory. Although he hoped to retort, Jereader screams in pain as the cambion's claws rake across his chest. Two fists to his shoulders slam him to the ground like sledgehammers. He lies across his brother, the cambion now towering above him.
"Although I am of your plane, priest, these are my people." The cambion raises a hand to the mass of devils that have gathered to watch the slaughter. The power expended during the battle has drawn the foulest creatures of the pit. "You should have accepted defeat in the city when you had the opportunity. Now we will feast on your souls."
The elder brother looks down at his sibling, fearing the worst. Everything seems to stop momentarily as Asyth's eyes flutter open. Jereader exhales deeply, not having known he was holding his breath. Tears fill the younger brother's eyes.
"I love you, Jereader," he whispers. It has been 30 years since he heard his brother say those words, not since they joined rival churches. The Zilchan priest has one last moment of clarity as he looks into his brother's eyes. He smiles comfortingly.
The fury that follows only a brother could understand. Tearing the gold dragon turtle from Asyth's chest, Jereader stands menacingly, knocking the cambion back a half-step. The Zilchan raises the holy symbol of Xerbo and speaks. His voice bellows so loudly that the lesser fiends scream in pain.
"In the names of Zilchus, Xerbo, and all the gods of Oerth, by all that is holy I command thee, return to whence thy came!" The expulsion of divine force is visible, exploding as a mighty volcano from the enraged priest. Those gathered are thrown to the ground and the hills echo with magical thunder. Where once three denizens of Oerth stood on the fields of Baator, only a crater now remains, one among many.
On the quarterdeck of the Cathedral of Xerbo, two men lie motionless. Steam rolls off their bare backs and blood slowly follows the natural curves of their bodies. The seamen standing about stare in wonderment. The two arrived with a mighty crack of thunder, though there are few clouds in the sky. Wherever the cambion fell, it is not in the Free Lands. Life returns to the prone men, and they cough loudly, expelling the sulfur from their lungs. It is difficult to move, but with a considerable amount of effort, each looks about to make sure the other is present.
Like fish thrown onto shore, their arms flop about until they grasp each other's hand. They lie there unspeaking, refusing to let go of one another. Finally Jereader smiles at his younger brother.
"I love you too, Asyth."

# Chapter 7: "Drums of War" by Joseph L. Selby

"I'm not so sure of this, Bailen." Two men stand in one of the myriad alleys of Evernight Street. They call it an alley, but it does not lead anywhere. Evernight Street is its own unique place with its own unique people. Once part of the city proper, new and improved streets were built above it, leaving the lane to lead to and from nothing. Those that still populate this area are forever protected from the sun, living in the shadows. Such a place accommodates a wealth of lifestyles, which is why the two men have come.
"Please do not use my name while we are doing this. By the Lady of Perfection, have you never done this before?" the second man growls.
Staring blankly at his friend and ally, Klabert Lord Grandhearth blinks a few times, considering the query in stunned contemplation. "No, no I have not. Have you, Bailen?" Bailen Lord Maltrus puts his face in his hands, stifling his frustration.
"I assure you he has," the feminine voice replies. Grandhearth swings around, startled. Maltrus, though, does not share his surprise. His head rises from his hands, a smile appearing where before there was only a grimace.
"Lady Midnight," he says to the shadow-strewn wall behind them, "I am glad you could join us." Cloaked in pitch-black cloth, a woman of striking beauty steps part-way from the darkness. The lamppost just outside the alley illuminates her face, her right arm, and part of her upper torso, the rest dissolves into the inky black. She smiles wickedly at the elder gentryman. Her violet eyes pierce his gaze like a surgeon's knife.
"Welcome Master Architect. You have brought company this time."
"You!" Grandhearth gasps, realizing who she is. Her smile widens.
"Occasionally there are some rewards to infamy," she coos. "I must say I never tire of that reaction." Her smile quickly dissolves into a scowl as she sees Grandhearth's hand drop to the hilt of his sword. "What did you come here for, old man, if not for what I have to offer. Control your dog, Architect, or our business here is through."
The two men had discussed this option repeatedly before they made their way beneath the city. Lord Maltrus had hoped his peer's presence would offer some validity to the terms they were prepared to offer. This reaction by Klabert, though, causes Bailen to react in a similarly impolitic manner. He takes his elbow and jams it into Grandhearth's side. The man grunts, but the blow brings him to his senses.
"Apologies, Lady," Maltrus begins, hoping to salvage the meeting. Grandhearth releases his sword and stands waiting for Lord Maltrus to make the next move. The scowl does not disappear from his face.
"I heard your speech in the square. It was inspiring," Timmorn Darkeyes quips. The guildmaster of the Alliance's Infiltrator's Guild smiles again, this time with venom. "Captain Hunter would be proud. She was inspiring too. …and look where that got her."
"We have business to discuss, Lady," Maltrus says, preventing another reaction by his forthright ally. He does not break eye contact with the rogue. He squares his shoulders, hoping to change the subject from posturing to actual negotiation. After a moment's thought, the woman obliges.
"What do you need, Architect?"
"Peace. We need peace. The words of my esteemed colleague rang true. The gentry have realized our folly through sacrifice and tragedy. We understand our misguided efforts and the cost that has had on us and on the city. We want peace." Lord Maltrus looks at his friend. Grandhearth does not return his glance. His eyes are set on the woman, hoping that if he stares hard enough, she might erupt in flame. Bailen has never seen Klabert so angry before, and he realizes just how much Grandhearth is sacrificing by agreeing to meet with an Alliance guildmaster.
"You want peace. What concern is that of mine?" Darkeyes asks flatly.
"Do not toy with me, Lady. I know what circles you are a part of. Your sticky fingers are in every honey pot of this city. Ours is a mutual relationship, but do not presume me a child. With Hunter's loss, we rule this city now—"
"No!" the woman shouts forcefully, causing Lord Maltrus to take a step back. Grandhearth's hand bolts back to his sword hilt, but his weapon remains sheathed. "Still you smack of pride, Architect. You are allowed the illusion of rulership simply because we allow you to have that illusion. Forget your place in this city and there are many people who can supplant you." Her smile turns to a sneer, and she bares her teeth like fangs. "How quickly you have forgotten the folly of Pengallen."
"Derreg Pengallen was a traitor and a demagogue," Grandhearth growls. "He has fled these lands in fear of the justice he would receive. We are nothing like him."
"Again your words speak false, lords." Lady Midnight hisses. "There is no escaping our justice. Pengallen flees, but he will be dealt with nonetheless. As for peace, you may wish it, but you cannot have it."
Regaining his composure, Bailen Lord Maltrus steps forward. He is an imposing figure when he wishes it with broad shoulders and a sharp nose. "Choose your words wisely, woman. The Gentry Council is unified in our intent and will act with impunity if you are so foolish as to war for this city. Think us puppets if you wish, but if it is conflict you want, we shall gladly offer it, and you will find that your puppets have cut their strings."
Silence. It fills the alley, causing nerves to stand on end. The violet eyes seem to stare at both men simultaneously. They stop breathing, hesitant on what happens next. How many of her underlings that they cannot see are standing in the shadows?
"You are cute, Architect." That was not what they were expecting. "Zilchus teaches us that politics and war are simply two other forms of trade. There is significant profit to be made from war…but not with you." The noblemen stand, staring at her blankly.
"I don't understand," Grandhearth says.
"Of course you don't. Your type doesn't associate with my type, which is why you wouldn't have known for another month if your friend hadn't brought you along."
"What is this, Lady?" Maltrus speaks up.
Reaching behind her, Timmorn Darkeyes pulls out a sizeable chest. She pulls it open forcefully. What little light there is in the alley shimmers across a pile of gold. "War is coming, gentlemen, and there is significant profit involved for me and my allies. Consider this an investment in the cause."
"The wounds are not yet healed from Pengallen's folly and you would have us make the same mistake?" Grandhearth's voice rises angrily. "Save your bribes, woman. We have coin aplenty as it is."
"By the Bitter Hand, would you shut up!" she barks. "War is coming—"
"How do you know this?" Grandhearth interrupts.
"War is coming and you are surrounded by enemies. We would not allow you to leave the city undefended while you resolve your obligations. This should allow you to hire those forces necessary to protect the city while you are away."
"Away? Where? How do you know this?" Grandhearth asks.
"Because I know how to listen! And people like to talk to those that listen!" Darkeyes shouts.
Ignoring the quarreling pair, Lord Maltrus reaches into the chest and picks up one of the gold pieces, inspecting its authenticity. Although the gold is quite real, one flaw is apparent. "These are not Dyversian wheatsheafs," he says breathily.
Stopping their bickering, the guildmaster smiles widely. "Does that matter? Gold is gold, regardless of its mint. Use it to prepare yourselves."
"War is coming," Maltrus repeats.
"Profit is coming," she whispers. The guildmaster disappears into the darkness. "Leave this one at home next time, Architect. He bothers me." The noblemen stand alone in the alley, Evernight Street behind them unaware of the meeting that just concluded.
"I don't believe her, Bailen. This is some type of deception. This gold was most likely stolen from the Viscount of Verbobonc or the King of Furyondy. They hope to instigate a war so that more of the Gentry Council can be removed. They hope to take control of the city."
"What need is there of such efforts when they already control the city," Lord Maltrus replies disheartened.
"I don't believe that. That is how they work. They peddle disinformation to subvert the will. Good people rule this city, forthright and just people." Lord Grandhearth reaches down and grabs hold of the collar of the urchin who had snuck into the alleyway. He pulls the boy away and tosses him from the alley, causing the whelp to drop the few coins he had managed to grab hold of. "Do not believe their deception, Bailen. We are a great city."
"Yes, we are, Klabert. But you are mistaken about one thing. They do not peddle deception, they peddle the truth. The truth is far more vicious than any deception man can conceive. War is coming. We must prepare."

# Chapter 8: "Reverdie" by Joseph L. Selby

Without looking at the sun, Verisham knows what time of day it is. The minstrel strums lazily on his lute, humming a tune. The tin cup in front of him is filled with copper and silver coins. Typically, he would have called it a day by now. The majority of ships have already made port in Safeton's harbor, and there is little likelihood that he'll make any more profit than he already has. But Verisham has a specific purpose beyond entertaining liberty sailors. There is a specific ship he was told would arrive today, one that carries information for him and his family. Given the name of the vessel, the Hungry Drake, there is only one piece of news it could be, and he is unwilling to leave the docks until that news is received. He continues to strum on his lute, watching the sun play along the waters of Woolly Bay. 
The melody rolls like the tide, pushing time away. The world around him disappears, leaving only the shimmering water. His intonations, the rising and falling pitch, bring back memories from a different life, a life that existed on the high seas, where his songs could not only raise the crew's ability to meet any challenge but affect the very winds themselves. He was young then, foolish, as were the people he sailed with. Cocksure and carefree, he and the other marines that crewed the Honor Bound were sure they could best anyone or anything. Krakens and pirates alike, they had yet to be bested. 
His humming falters a bit as other memories surface. His tone becomes noticeably low, and he sees past the shimmering water into the dark depths of Woolly Bay. Nothing could best them…so they thought. They had just finished raiding a slaver route in the Nyr Dyv near Dyversian waters. He was sitting on the rigging singing for the crew, celebrating their latest victory. His hair was longer then, his voice more crisp. Captain Marken was at the helm, anxious to return home to his wife and do his own celebrating. She died last year from a fever. Verisham's brother was tending to the mast and singing along as wholeheartedly as the rest of the crew. How had he changed since that day? Verisham was the first to see the corsair come from behind a nearby island. Its sails were full, and it raced above the waves as if it could fly. The Elizabeth Dane was said to be the fastest ship on the Nyr Dyv. He hadn't believed it before, but seeing the ship firsthand belied any doubts he previously held. 
As the sun begins setting, blocked by Safeton's taller buildings, the bard's song begins to sound like a dirge. The water he had found so entrancing now darkens to match his mood. With one hand grasped firmly to the line, he had stood on the rigging, watching the rapid advancement of the enemy ship. His voice had boomed across the waters, filling their sails with the captured wind. It did little, though, to increase the distance between the two ships. As his voice roared, the Dane came up alongside; her crew was ready for battle. He paid the pirates no attention. It was their captain that drew all eyes to her. That flowing read hair, that broad crimson hat with its audacious feather. Her poise oozed an unnatural presence; her confidence in the matter unmistakable. Nothing could best them…so they had thought. 
Verisham snaps back to reality as a ship enters the harbor. He has no knowledge of how long he had been lost in thought, but the sun is gone beneath the horizon and only the full moon gives light to the area. He pauses hopefully, waiting for the ship to make berth. He would swear it is the Hungry Drake but worries that the low light and his anxiousness might be playing tricks on his eyes. His fears are put to rest, though, when Captain Marken stands on the rail and waves his hat at the minstrel. Not waiting for the ship to complete its arduous docking process, the captain and a few sailors man a longboat and row to shore. Verisham is quick to meet them, leaving his tin cup on the pier without giving it a second thought. 
"Welcome to Safeton, captain," he says anxiously. He clenches the neck of his lute so tightly in his left hand that the impressions of the strings will remain on his fingers for the rest of the night. 
"Aye lad, it's nice to see a friendly face again," Marken says, grabbing the younger man by the shoulders. He looks him up and down, inspecting his former crewman. "Life on land seems to be treating you well enough." 
"Captain!" Verisham cries, the anguish obvious in his voice. 
"All right lad! All right," the captain laughs. "As captain of the Hungry Drake, tis my privilege to inform you that your brother and fellow marine, Rashaman, was recovered during the siege of Admundfort. He be resting in Dyvers and reacquainting himself with the missus, if you know what I mean." The seamen give a good chuckle, but Verisham does not even hear the jest. 
"Thank you Marken, may the Sea Dragon bless your journey," the bard cries over his shoulder. He falls into a dead sprint back toward the city. 
"Aye lad," the captain replies softly, knowing the minstrel cannot hear him. "May the gods bless us all. We be family once more." Marken takes off his hat and scratches his balding head. "Back to the ship, boys," he barks. "There still be work to do." 
The Hungry Drake has made little progress in its docking by the time Verisham has left the city. Galloping on horseback, he bolts to his family farm south of the city. His mother often chided him his stubborn nature. As the years passed, he refused to give up hope. He knew his brother was out there somewhere. And with the testament of Captain Marken, a sailor he had entrusted his life to on numerous occasions, his hope has proven true. If it were possible, his joy would grow as wings on his back and he would fly back to his home. As it is, he simply spurred his horse ever faster, coming dangerously close to killing the beast. 
The horse has yet to stop moving when the man's feet hit the ground. It's late now, with the full moon emblazoned in the heavens above. Shadows play everywhere, but Verisham pays them little attention. His senses are piqued, and he sees as if he were half-elven. He leaps to the porch shouting, "Hey! Everyone, hey!" He slows only momentarily when he rounds the corner of the house and reaches the front door. There are horses outside. Their size would belie their war-time use if they were not barded with spiked armor. Verisham hesitates momentarily and curses under his breath. It seems that word spread more quickly of Rashaman's rescue than he thought. Obviously some former crewmates-turned-adventurers have come to wish the family well. He hopes that they have not spoiled the surprise yet. He wants to be the one to tell his mother. 
"Mother!" he shouts, running in the front door. "Mother, I have great news!" He's not sure why he stops in the front hall. He has yet to stop moving since he left Captain Marken at the docks. But here, between the dining room and the reading room, he stops. The house is dark. There is no sound, even though he has caused a mighty ruckus upon his arrival. The hairs stand on the back of his neck and, although not used for years, those skills he honed as a marine and adventurer awaken. Something is wrong. He is not alone. 
He looks down at his left hand, feeling for the first time the pain he inflicted on himself by squeezing his lute so tightly. Thinking for only a split second, he turns the weapon upside down, holding the make-shift club in front of him defensively. He steps forward silently, like a cat silently prowling the night. Where before he ignored the shadows caused by the full moon, now his eyes dart from corner to corner, piercing the black. For no discernable reason, he moves to his left, heading toward the kitchen. He pushes the swinging door ajar slowly. The opening releases a barrage of trapped odors and sounds. Some type of stew simmers on the fire. His stomach rumbles, reminding him that he has not eaten since lunch. His mind wanders briefly as he remembers that he left his tin cup on the pier. 
Movement in the kitchen draws his attention back to the present. "Mother?" he asks cautiously. He takes another step forward, opening the door fully. As he does, the light from the cook fire embers illuminates the rest of the kitchen. He sees what remains of his mother lying on the floor. Rats crawl across her chest. Her body has been torn asunder, legs split like a wishbone and throne onto the table. He gags as he realizes they've been gnawed upon. 
Grief overwhelms the minstrel, and he drops his lute, making a large clattering on the kitchen stones. He hears the thundering of massive boots charging through the house long before he sees the heavily armored orcs turn the corner, but he cannot move. He stairs at his mother, the look of horror burned onto her face. He smells the stew he craved only a few moments ago. The thought of what might be in that stew now causes him to leave what little he had in his stomach on the floor. He wipes his mouth on his sleeve, hoping to regain his composure, but it's too late. 
"Mother, I have good news," he whispers. "Rashaman has been rescued." The massive axe cuts through the darkness in slow motion; the blade shimmers in the ember light. The last thing Verisham sees is the giant orc standing in front of him. Its face is smeared with war paint. The bard's eyes grow wide as he recognizes where that paint comes from. He's struck by how unnatural the green skin looks beneath the paint. Black.

# Chapter 9: "Thurgen's Price" by Kevin Elmore

Not long ago, Thurgen had respect. As one of Derreg Lord Pengallen's servants, Thurgen enjoyed a life of decadence and indulgence. His father, Trungam, also served House Pengallen, so Thurgen learned from an early age that fear was the best motivator. Young Thurgen used to push his peers around, and they were ordered by their parents to not fight back. Trungam was brutal when it came to punishing those who abused his son. 
Now that Derreg Pengallen has fled Maraven, avoiding repercussions for his involvement in the One Day War, is Thurgen learning the price of this freedom. Without Pengallen's aegis surrounding him, Thurgen is realizing just how much people hate him and the way he carries himself. For the first time ever, Thurgen honestly fears for his life. 
He surreptitiously walks through the side streets and alleys of Dyvers. Though he recently acquired a disguise from a loyal associate named Gralm, Thurgen carries himself cautiously through the city. With Pengallen gone, Thurgen no longer has a name to protect himself with. Anyone who wants revenge is free to exact it on him. He can't even seek solace with the remaining members of House Pengallen; without Derreg's commanding influence, Thurgen is at their dubious mercy. 
Thurgen stops short in the alley when a man steps in front of him. Another man blocks the sole side alley, leaving only retreat. Thurgen speaks just as Gralm had instructed. "Ah, pardon me, good sir. I am without coin, but I did see a merchant not 20 steps behind me, if you'll let me pass." 
The man in front grins and says, "Thurgen, I'm going to enjoy slitting you from top to bottom and spitting on your corpse for burning down my shop." 
Expertly, Thurgen retains his composure and replies, "Oh my, I am just a poor beggar. I implore you to let me be." 
The man does not move. "You're right, Gralm," he says to footsteps plodding behind the disheveled servant, "he is a snivelling toad after all." 
Thurgen's eyes widen as he spins around and sees Gralm behind him. "You!" he hisses at his benefactor. "I paid you over a hundred coins for your discretion." 
Gralm stares coldly at the man, a cleaver clenched tightly in one hand. He levelly says, "No amount of gold can undo what you've done to my brother. Did you think you can make me forget how he died in the prison you sent him to? Did you believe I wouldn't remember his wife crying in my arms because of all the...liberties you've taken with her? This is the end of the line for you, swine." 
Frantically, Thurgen looks to the man in the side-alley, hoping to find some compassion that would allow him to pass. The man simply opens his mouth, revealing a blackened stump of flesh where his tongue should be. Searching the area, Thurgen spots a wide drainpipe. He bolts to the hole and slides through the opening. 
The stone walls of the pipe chafe his skin raw, and the landing in the sewer knocks his breath out of his body. He barely has time to reclaim that breath when he hears the three men scrambling down the pipe after him. He stands up, not caring about the human waste caking his hair or face, and runs down the tunnels, dimly lit from the grates above. 
Thurgen knows the men will catch him. He is out of shape and cannot run for long. An unprecedented amount of gelatinous cubes were killed during the One-Day War, meaning there is plenty of detritus to retain his footprints and betray his location. The men mean to torture him to death, most certainly. Thurgen wishes he had turned himself in to be made a cube. At least he could have been protected in the sewer instead of killed like a stray dog. 
The tunnel opens into a large cistern. If not for the close proximity of the footsteps behind him, Thurgen would hope to lose himself in one of the many tunnels feeding into this chamber. Standing on a raised platform in the middle is a dark-haired woman in a white gown. She turns at Thurgen's approach and softly says, "I'm in need of you. Come here." 
Thurgen does not contemplate the absurdity of a woman in a pristine dress lurking in the sewers. He sloshes through the muck and collapses at her feet. The three men enter and skirt the perimeter, surrounding the two of them. Thurgen sobs, "You have to help me. Please!" He used to be such a proud man, and now he is reduced to blubbering. 
Gralm looks the woman up and down, trying to figure out her role in this. He sees his two companions on the other side, tightening the circle so Thurgen cannot escape. He says, "We've got no beef with you, lady. Just walk away." 
The woman surveys the cistern. At her feet is Thurgen, tears carving deep rivulets down his muck-covered face. Within spitting distance are the three men, evenly spaced around. She impassively speaks to the men, "Do you have knowledge about the Gentry and the Alliance?" 
Gralm flinches unconsciously. People rarely speak so blatantly about the Alliance, preferring to use euphemisms for the shadowy organization. Baffled, he responds, ‘No, not as such. We're just honest working folk..." 
The woman's cold eyes pierce Gralm, and she says, "Then your lives are worth less than this man's." Rubbery, dark tentacles erupt from the waters and wrap around the three men. Tentacles fill the entire cistern except for the middle, where the woman stands like the eye of a hurricane. Thurgen yelps and throws his arms around his savior's legs, nervously looking at the wall of tentacles writhing inches away from him. The tentacles pay no attention to him, instead eagerly fighting for control of the three men like children pulling at a straw doll. 
The woman looks down at Thurgen and says, "We leave now, and I want you to tell me all the secrets you know of the Gentry and the Alliance, Thurgen." 
Thurgen nods rapidly and wraps his arms around her legs even tighter. As the woman speaks arcane words, he realizes that the legs he is clutching are impossibly thin and hard as stone. The white dress fades, leaving a dingy, tattered robe, coated with cobwebs. He looks up at the woman's face and sees two glowing embers in her eye sockets. Before he can protest, they both vanish, leaving behind the sounds of strangled sobs and snapping bones.

# Chapter 10: "Price of Peace" by Joseph L. Selby

The winter of CY 594 proving the exception, it does not snow in the Free Lands of Dyvers. The geography is by no uncertain means a temperate area of the Flanaess, but for reasons that diviners and sages cannot fully explain, it does not snow there. Most attribute the strange occurrence to the magical properties of the Bottomless Lake, but no one knows for sure. Instead of snow, rain heralds winter in the Free Lands. Rain that falls to the earth like stones and quickly builds up into thick rivulets to race down the unpaved streets of the region's smaller villages and hamlets as if they were separated by a canal. The city proper itself boasts a complex sewer system that keeps the majority of water from lingering on the streets above. However, the convicted criminals—murders and traitors of the worst sort—turned gelatinous cubes that clean the sewers year-round take the opportunity to mindlessly relive their more contemptible past by blocking the waterways and flooding the streets. The frigidity of the winter past is pushed to the back of the mind by those who survived and not fully appreciated by those newly arrived to the city, following the new trade route to Admundfort across the Nyr Dyv. 
Today it rains across the Free Lands, from Westguard to Eastguard, from Great Crown Island to the depths of the Gnarley Forest. And though it does little to dampen the spirits of those citizens that endured the many trials of this most recent year—the magister's departure and return, the One Day War, and the invasion of Admundfort—it reflects perfectly the mood in Caltaran, more specifically the mood in Grandhearth Manor. In his private study, Klabert Lord Grandhearth, governor of Caltaran and newly appointed magistrate of the Westlands, stairs out the window. The beautiful grounds of the manor house are obscured by the water pouring down the glass panes. He pays them little attention regardless. His face reflects in the window, dancing with the flickering candlelight cast from a table behind him. The door to the study is closed and has been all day. The staff has been told that the family values its space in these trying times. Klabert's second wife, Maenda, is upstairs with their daughter. The half-elf matron has scarcely left the toddler's side in the past few weeks. To be honest, Grandhearth is thankful for that fact. The recent traumatic experience has shaken his faith in Dyvers to its very foundations. Assumptions he once took as unquestionable truths of his beloved nation have turned to questions. To what lengths will people go to advance their own agendas? To what degree should a nation that values its independence and the liberty it affords its citizens tolerate the presence of a drow woman corrupting the souls of that citizenry? When is it time to forego those liberties and punish the wicked? If not for a few brave adventurers, that faith would have been destroyed entirely. 
Faith, however, remains in short supply in Lord Grandhearth's study. Lying across the plush red velvet cushions of a couch in the center of the room, Enruhl Grandhearth-Leardyn, once Lord Leardyn, governor of the Westlands, stairs up at the ceiling. His right hand, gripped firmly around a half-empty goblet, sways rhythmically back and forth, although neither man hears a tune. His opposite hand clutches a bottle of Leardynian Gold Wine in a vice grip. Although some may mistake the man's condition as a result of too much merry-making, the puffy bags beneath his eyes reveal the truth of his situation. Stripped of his nobility for doing what he still believes to be the best interest of the Free Lands, Enruhl mourns not the loss of his lordship, but the loss of his eldest son. 
"Ethane must be awfully damp. I wish they had given him a hat," Enruhl slurs. He swings the goblet forcefully, spilling some of the wine on the valuable rug below. "No one should be in this weather without a hat…or at least a decent cloak." 
"Please, cousin," Klabert says softly, "not again." He turns from his reflection and looks at his guest. He wishes he could offer the man some comfort, but he understands the misery a father feels when his child is taken from him. 
"Not again?" Leardyn's tone bites like a snake. "Should I simply expunge the image of my son's severed head hanging from Thrommel's Arch? Cast it aside like an unwanted pebble along the lakeshore? Eh, cousin?" His eyes squint, piercing Klabert's gaze until Grandhearth is forced to look away. 
"I will not fight you, Enruhl. I share your sorrow, but I am not the villain here." 
"Do you remember how his body squirmed? What an unnatural thing for a headless corpse to do, to dance as if the greatest bard had just struck up a tune." Tears well up in Leardyn's eyes, neither the first nor the last he has shed since Ethane's execution three days prior. "He's gone Klabert." 
"His spirit will find comfort with the Invincible, cousin. Of that, I am certain." Lord Grandhearth moves to the sofa and places his hand gently on Enruhl's shoulder. A growing concern, his cousin has long found comfort in a bottle of wine. Although the issue seemed to have run its course with the absence of the magister, since the One Day War and Larissa's return, the problem has grown steadily worse. Although Klabert does not mean to be unfeeling, he truly does not know what to say. What words will console his most favorite relation without setting off the beast of inebriation prowling within? 
"His spirit will find no rest. It is trapped within that thing. On so many occasions I have shared company with George Good, yet the man so willingly sent my son into the dungeons of the Four Towers and turned him into a gelatinous cube. His soul is trapped in that monster, and it will wander the sewers forever slurping at the refuse of the city. It is intolerable. It is cruel." 
"You mustn't think that way, Enruhl. The boy's spirit had passed before Good went to task. Magister Hunter would not condemn Ethane to such a fate, regardless of the boy's supposed crime." Grandhearth gently takes the bottle from his cousin's hand and returns it to the liquor tray. Only paces behind, Leardyn retrieves the bottle and fills his goblet anew. "She sought justice, not vengeance." 
"And yet she got both." Enruhl, leaving his cousin's side, takes his place at the window. Watching the shadows dance across his reflected face, the deposed lord finds a grim satisfaction in the darkness. It lends to his face an emptiness that matches his heart, and he digs deeper into that pain. "It was adventurers." 
Klabert has been expecting this, and he is hesitant to be supportive of his cousin's anguish given the great services adventurers have paid the Free Lands this past year, his household in particular. 
"She left him hope. She let him think she would exile him…Furyondy most likely." The silence races to fill the void left as Enruhl inebriatedly follows the stray thought. "It was they," he says finally, "that sealed his fate. They denounced him." 
"Not all of them." 
"Two feebly offered protests against four resolute indictments. They killed him! They killed my son." 
Again, silence. 
"Ethane made his decision, Enruhl," Klabert finally says firmly, "and it was a poor decision. Whatever good intentions you may have had inviting the Knights of Furyondy to remain at Westguard, Ehtane exploited those intentions for his own ends. His sentence is the price of peace." 
"Peace? Is that all? Or will there be more? What is the price of peace?" 
The horse-drawn carriage arrives before the grand church of Rao in the besieged capital of Veluna, the Holy City of Mitrik. No footman opens the door. The teamsters do not leave their bench, but wait anxiously to depart with cargo unloaded. From within, a pale-white hand pushes the door open, and a man draped in thick black robes pours like ink onto the steps of the most holy site. Swinging about his neck is a silver holy symbol of the Calm God. Clutched in his other hand is second holy symbol, the cracked skull of the Old One. He eyes it through slitted eyes and then throws it uncaringly back into the carriage. He turns back to the steps, finally acknowledging the men standing there. 
"Canon, thank you for having me." 
"I have spoken to Magister Hunter and she has told me you would aid us in our battle in exchange for sanctuary in an effort to prove your redemption. I have given my consent. Let us hope our trust is well placed." The old priest opens his arms ceremoniously. "The Archclericy of Veluna and the faithful of the Mediator welcome you and grant you sanctuary, Vayne, Lord of Wands."

# Chapter 11: "Resurrection" by Joseph L. Selby

The shadows of Greyhawk City have many secrets. Among them is The Magic House, a mysterious tavern whose location is known only by an elite few of the city's population: sinister, duplicitous, and elite. As such, it is not uncommon for someone to appear out of the shadows, as if he had never been there. In the alley behind the tavern, things unfold differently. The lane has little light, except what trails in from the adjacent streets beside the two tall, opposing buildings. The buildings' girth block out direct sun…and perhaps that was the intention of their construction. A man, naked in every sense of the word, appears out of the shadows and falls to the ground. His body slaps against the stone with a sickening thud followed by an audible crack as two of his ribs break. Ignoring the pain as only a soldier or adventurer could, he looks around frantically. He doesn't recognize his surroundings, although there is little in the alley to distinguish it from the myriad alleys he has been in before. What he does know is that he's alone. 
Moments before, he was anything but. He found himself in a small room, an antechamber crowded with an assortment of humans and halflings. There was a coffin with a body…a body that looked very familiar. Confused and disoriented, he had hoped the group was his rescuers. But that hope was quickly dashed as a dwarf-like halfling drew his dagger and made to strike. It was instinct that threw him into the shadows, instinct that saved him from the blade and hurtled him into this alley. Now if instinct could just tell him where he was…. 
Whether divine intervention or comedic coincidence, the door at the rear of The Magic House opens at that moment where a rather stocky dwarf waddles out, carrying a can of trash. He stops like a deer sensing a predator, eying the naked man suspiciously. The dwarf's eyes dart in and out of the shadows, looking for the person using the man as a distraction, but no one is there. Satisfied that he has not just walked into an ambush, the dwarf lifts the can in both hands and throws the refuse onto the naked man without question or provocation. He then turns, and walks back to the door, pulling it shut with his foot as he passes. 
Before the door can close fully, though, the naked man, now covered in filth, forces his forearm in the opening. The door does not close, but neither does it bounce back open like a normal wooden door. He learns quickly that the door is made of iron, and the man wonders whether he has a broken arm to accompany his ribs. Again, he pushes the pain aside. 
"Where am I?" he asks in a desperate tone. His voice rasps from lack of use. 
"In a world of hurt if ye don' getcher arm outta me door. I gave ye me scraps. Now be off wit ye," the dwarf growls. He turns and hefts the empty can in one hand, waving it threateningly. 
"My name is Margus." 
"Yer name could be Daffodil Fairywinkle for all I care. What parta sod off didn' ye unnerstand?" 
"I am the magister of Dyvers!" 
"By the Mad Archmage, ye be touched!" The dwarf lowers the can and scowls at the stranger. "I not be dealin' wit the likes of you. Peddle yer sob story at the Temple of the Calm God. They have mercy in spades. I got patrons ter look after." The dwarf turns to go again. 
"Please," the man pleads, "just tell me where I am, and I swear I'll leave you in peace." The dwarf pauses again. For being insane, the man speaks extremely lucidly. Certainly everyone knows the magister of Dyvers is Larissa Hunter. She made a bit of a spectacle of herself this past year. It was popular tavern-talk all across the Nyr Dyv. Still, the dwarf knows as well how uncaring some spellcasters can be. This would not be the first time he has heard of an evil priest erasing the memories of a man to satisfy his own sadistic humor. 
"Fine then. I tell ye and ye leave me be. Deal?" The naked man nods in agreement, his eyebrows rising anxiously. "Ye be in the Free City of Greyhawk." The dwarf pushes the man with the empty refuse can, knocking him back a step. "Best leave yer claim a magister behind," he continues. "Larissa Hunter tain't the most popular woman in this city." 
"Captain Hunter? Of the Meadowlands? What does she have to do with this?" 
"We had a deal," the dwarf barks. He hefts the waste can anew and slams it into the naked man's head, knocking him to the alley floor. If his arm was not broken before, it most certainly is now. He falls onto it at an awkward angle, and the skin bulges as the bone attempts to pierce its way to freedom. He screams in pain, but cannot let this opportunity pass. 
"Are you saying she's magister of Dyvers?!" he screams. His eyes are full of tears. The pain is unbearable. 
"Aye, and has been for nigh on a decade!" The door slams shut. There is the loud thunk of a bar being dropped. The alley returns to the shadows. 
"A decade?" the man asks the emptiness. He cradles his arm and rocks back and forth, overwhelmed by the situation. 
"The dwarf speaks the truth," a voice says from behind him. Margus jerks his head to see who has snuck up behind him, but quickly snaps it back as the pain from his side reminds him of his limited flexibility. He hears a tindertwig spark to life and shortly thereafter, the scent of cigar smoke wafts over his shoulders. "My name is Vincent Fleet, Magister Margus. I am a citizen of Dyvers and at your service." 
The naked man stands slowly, turning to face whoever is behind him. His eyes widen when he realizes that it is the same deep halfling he saw in the antechamber below The Magic House. "You know me?" he asks cautiously. 
"Well, we've never met personally." The halfling puffs at his cigar. "But I'm old enough to remember when you were magister. I'm old enough to remember when you abdicated the throne and disappeared." 
"Abdicated? I did no such thing," he growls at the halfling. 
The smaller halfling pulls his cigar from his mouth and stares at the man unemotionally. "Yes, you did." He puts the cigar back into his mouth as if that were the end of the debate. 
"Listen you," Margus commands, his temper flaring, "if you truly are a resident of the Free Lands, then do my bidding now. I need clothing, healing, and transport to Dyvers. A grand deception is at hand, and I believe my throne has been stolen. The Gentry Council must be notified. Derreg Lord Pengallen is a traitor." 
Margus stands, his back rigid, staring down his nose at the halfling. The rogue bites his cigar and smiles broadly, disarming the deposed magister. "A traitor, eh? You don't know the half of it." The halfling walks forward, inspecting the man's arm and whistles softly under his breath, holding his finger above the bulging flesh. Margus pulls his arm away sharply, feeling pain even though no contact was made. "Listen your Excellency, we have a bit of a problem." 
"Oh?" There is hesitation in Margus' voice. 
"You've been gone awhile now. A lot has changed…and I mean a lot. …but at the same time, so much is the same," the halfling muses to himself. 
"What are you talking about?" 
"Well, the situation isn't so easy that I can just take you back to Dyvers, up to the Gentry Council and say, "My lords, look who I found in the back alleys of Greyhawk. It's Magister Margus. To all of them, you left a long time ago. No one has heard from you since. And now you just show up like this? Are you really Margus? Are you a clone? Are you another one of the Old One's demonic servants in disguise? The city would not walk so easily into another year of tragedy. There are questions as to who you really are." 
For a moment, Margus forgets the pain of his damaged arm and ribs. "Those are absurd concerns. I am His Excellency Margus, Magister of the Free and Independent City of Dyvers and Her Free Lands! I am no agent of the Old One or some abomination of foul sorcery. Now, halfling, will you help me or not?" 
Vincent draws in a heavy puff of smoke from his cigar. The blade of the dagger glows read, reflecting the burning tobacco. It cuts through the air like lightning and slips beneath the magister's left arm, piercing his side and puncturing his heart. His eyes widen again as his body seizes from a mix of pain and disbelief. Life slips away quickly and his weight bears down on the halfling, causing the little man to skip out of the way. "I'll help you, your Excellency. But first, there are a lot of questions that need answering, and I'm not the one who can go about finding those answers. Lucky for you, I know some people who know some people. They'll get to the bottom of this." He looks in either direction, making sure no one saw the unexpected assassination then whistles to the shadows. A door, hidden in the masonry of the adjacent building, opens and a host of humans, halflings, and an elf walk into the alley. 
"I don't think he's a demon," one of the halflings says. 
"Doesn't appear to be," Vincent replies. "One questions answered. But there are plenty more. Let's get him back to Dyvers. I don't think they expected this to happen when they sent us here." The elf opens a portable hole and the group shoves Margus' body into the extra-dimensional space next to a second unmoving body. They look to the alley openings again to make sure there are no unwitting spectators and then make their way home, leaving behind Greyhawk City and all its intrigues. 

# Chapter 12: "Bloody Portents" by Kevin Elmore

Parthod watched the yellow and black spider crawl on the dead leaves surrounding him. It halted at Parthod's hand, wondering if it was a safe haven for it. Deciding it was safe; the spider stepped onto the hand, the hairs on its legs tickling Parthod. 
Parthod allowed the spider to explore his hand. Though he recognized the potency of its venom, he did not dissuade it from crawling onto him. He easily could have moved his hand. Even now, he could expertly fling the spider into the air before it had a chance to sink its fangs into his flesh. He did not dare protect himself from the spider, for a bigger threat loomed nearby. 
He lay among the dead leaves and branches deep in the Gnarley Forest. To his left, just a pebble's toss away, were a dozen orc warriors. They watched the trees for any intrusion. Despite their vigilance, they did not see Parthod's intrusion nor that of his companion on his right, Willowleaf. Parthod cast his eyes quickly at the elven form, similarly hidden under the detritus of the forest. If he had not journeyed to this spot with her, he would never see through her camouflage. She briefly noticed the spider on Parthod's hand before directing her attention again to the clearing before them. 
Inside the clearing, hundreds of orcs prepared for battle. They sharpened axes and swords, they hammered dents out of their armor, and they bullied the slaves into cooking their meals more quickly. This was the most organized Parthod had ever seen of orcs. It was clear who was the focus of their organization, a hulking orc named Gnasher Barrock. All other orcs deferred to him, and his atypical wile was visible in his dark eyes. Parthod had heard tales of how Gnasher maintained loyalty. The most famous tale was how he tied six dissenting orcs to trees and then released a dozen gnome and halfling slaves. He armed the slaves with crude weapons and left them alone with the orc captives. Not only were the orcs killed in a shameful manner by weaker humanoids, they were tortured first by the vengeful slaves who suffered under Gnasher Barrock's ownership. It was said that when Gnasher was upset, he took his enemies alive so he could punish any orcs that displeased him. 
The clearing acted as a conclave, as Gnasher Barrock addressed equally impressive warriors. Parthod did not learn the orcish tongue, but he recognized several words: Ambush, Dyvers, war, Gnarley. Clearly, Gnasher was issuing battle plans. Parthod understood none of this, but that was why he was paired with Willowleaf. She lay next to him, absorbing all that she heard. Where Parthod's specialty was in fighting, Willowleaf specialized in information. 
Parthod forgot about the spider and looked at his hand again. It sat on his hand for so long, he no longer felt its weight. Its bite would not be lethal, but it would be excruciatingly painful. He hoped it would not decide to move up his arm. Mercifully, it decided to crawl back onto the leaves in search of food. With his hand free of potential toxins, Parthod risked signaling Willowleaf. His emancipated hand made the signs for "information" and "good" while looking at her inquisitively. Willowleaf frowned and held up one finger, demanding that he wait. Whatever the orcs were discussing commanded her attention. Branches broke behind them, and Parthod cast a quick glance. Several orcs took up position in the forest behind them. The only exit route had been blocked. Fortunately, the orcs did not spot the prone rangers, but their presence complicated the escape. Parthod and Willowleaf were completely surrounded by orcs. 
The discussion between Gnasher Borrack and his commanders ended with them moving out of the clearing. Willowleaf motioned to Parthod and simply signaled, "go." 
Parthod nullified her command with a horizontal slash of his hand and motioned to the orcs behind them. He gestured that there were many. He saw the urgency in her face. Parthod knew that what Willowleaf learned from the orcs was vitally important for the protectors of the Gnarley Forest. He looked around them, trying to find a break in the ring of orcs. Finally, he pointed to himself and signed one word to Willowleaf: "diversion." 
The elven eyes widened at this realization. She shook her head, causing a stir in the leaves obfuscating her. None of the orcs took notice, but Parthod was furious that she risked discovery because her feelings for him got in the way. It was not a secret among the rangers that Willowleaf loved Parthod, but he served the forest first and foremost. He enjoyed her company, but he could never allow himself to give in to such a distraction. Seeing her looking at him with an overwhelming concern made him wonder if he made a mistake in not letting her get too close. The thought brought tears to his eyes, and he silently cursed her for making him feel this way. 
Strengthening his resolve before he could succumb to his feelings, Parthod signaled to her, "You know information. I know nothing. Go!" The ferocity burned in his eyes as he signaled for her to leave him behind. Sadly, Willowleaf slinked away from him, expertly masking the rustle of leaves with the natural sounds of the forest. His eyes softened momentarily, and he signed to her, "love." 
Willowleaf moved so quickly out of his area that Parthod was not sure she caught his last word. He only hoped that she would flee the area armed with the knowledge about Gnasher Barrock's plans and the knowledge that he did have feelings for her. It was too late to do anything about the latter except to ensure her survival. To that end, Parthod broke cover, effortlessly and quickly standing on his feet and pulling the bow off his back. As the orcs turned in surprise, Parthod reached into his quiver and grasped two arrows between his fingers. He pulled them out and nocked them. The orcs behind him charged through the trees, and the commotion caused Gnasher Barrock to turn toward Parthod. The ranger pulled back on the bowstring and launched the two arrows. 
The arrows arced through the air and struck Gnasher in the chest. Sparks filled the air as the arrows harmlessly bounced off his breastplate. Before Parthod could pull another arrow from the quiver, the bow in his hand twisted and writhed upon itself. The string went flaccid. Parthod saw the orc shaman responsible for such magic and moved toward him, dropping the useless bow and drawing his sword. 
Realizing the threat that assaulted them, the orcs moved to surround Parthod fully, forming a circle of spears, axes, and swords ready to cut him down. Gnasher Barrock shouted at them, a combination of orcish words, which Parthod could make out as, "alive," "torture," and "information." While Parthod was not afraid to die, he was not so certain he could stand up to Gnasher's interrogation. 
When he caught Willowleaf's movement far away from the orcs, Parthod attacked with wild abandon. The orcs did not attack with the same fervor. They struck at him, but he felt the flat of an axe against his shoulder instead of the biting blade. It was only a matter of time before they knocked his sword from his hand and tackled him to the ground with the intent of handing the living captive to Gnasher. 
Parthod swung wildly with his sword, cleaving into an orc wearing the hides of an owlbear. He leaped onto the orc as he crumpled over and catapulted himself directly at an orc who was comfortably behind the main forces. As Parthod screamed with a bestial fury, the orc instinctively raised his spear and thrust it directly into Parthod's chest. The ranger fell to his knees and smiled at the wooden shaft protruding from his body, despite the pain of several broken ribs and his lungs burning as they filled with blood. The orc holding the spear paled as Gnasher shouted even more. Parthod learned enough orcish to recognize terms like, "idiot." He only hoped the other words were threats of making the soldier's last minutes an agony. 
The orc shaman who disabled Parthod's bow ran forward, intending to call upon the spirits of the forest to preserve the ranger's life. With his remaining strength, Parthod pulled a knife from his belt and flung it at the shaman. It missed the shaman's throat, but the shaman fell forward as the blade buried itself into his leg. Parthod's hands felt numb, and he knew his spirit would be claimed by Ehlonna. He reached forward and wrenched the spear out of his chest, causing his body to erupt into a spasm of pain. That pain was soon replaced with a wave of calmness, as he bled onto the forest floor. 
As Parthod's life escaped him, he wondered if Willowleaf could get the information to the Gnarley Protectors. He wondered if Willowleaf caught his look of regret for not returning her affections. Finally, with an amused, though pained, grin crossing his face, he wondered how many slaves Gnasher would free today.


# Chapter 13: "The Lion's Den" by Kevin Elmore


"Sir, someone to see you," said the voice in the doorway. 
Colonel Dolorrak looked up from his paperwork and nodded at the constable, who stepped aside. A dark-skinned man strode past him and into Dolorrak's office. He sharply said, "I need a moment with you. In private." 
Dolorrak tensed as he recognized the man in his office. How dare he waltz into the main constabulary! With all the crimes attributed to him, this man was either extremely stupid or extremely confident. Dolorrak kept his hand on his sword; even the stupidest criminal wouldn't walk brazenly into the highest concentration of skilled constables in the city. Dolorrak glanced at the constable who returned a worried look. 
The man noticed Dolorrak's gaze and said, "You can relax. Had I meant you harm, you wouldn't see my face. I know you are skilled with the sword, after all. I give up my advantage by looking you in the eyes." 
Standing, Dolorrak pondered the man's words and then waved the constable away. Shutting the door, Dolorrak said, "Don't you normally discuss your business in dark alleys? If you think you can blackmail me, you've nullified that by showing your face here." Unconvinced about the man's intention, Dolorrak kept his hand on his sword hilt. 
"I do not have time to skulk in dark alleys, Colonel," replied the man. "Besides, I have enemies there, as well. I want to ask you to delay the execution of Lord Darian Kesser." 
Dolorrak spat, "Former Lord! He is not Gentry anymore. Why in the Hades would I delay the execution of one of the more notorious criminals of this city? Why would you care anyway? There's not a shortage of wretched souls for you to cling to for your depraved tastes! In fact, I should arrest you right now. Maybe even kill you for resisting arrest." Dolorrak drew his sword and pointed it at the man's neck. He hissed, "I am so disgusted by you lowlifes telling me what to do. Give me one good reason why I shouldn't just run you through with a tragic but believable story." 
The man did not flinch at Dolorrak's venom or his sword. He slowly raised one hand with outstretched fingers. He deliberately reached with his other hand into a pouch on his belt. Dolorrak narrowed his eyes and watched the pouch carefully, mindful of the man's other hand; enough Dyversians lost their coin or lives to such a simple trick. His eyes widened when he saw the token the man pulled from the pouch. 
Incredulously, Dolorrak said, "No, this cannot be." 
"You can verify my words," said the man. "We offer no threat to you. We only ask that you delay Kesser's execution for at least a month." 
As if in a daze, Dolorrak nodded. He muttered, "I could tell the Magister that we are close to breaking him; that he may give us the names and locations of his contacts." 
The man answered, "You would not be terribly far from the truth. Also, we would like Kesser moved to a new location. I'll have an associate give you the location next week." 
Dolorrak sheathed his sword and sat down, looking across the desk at the man. He glanced briefly at his bookshelves and rested his gaze on a glass box. Within the box lay the only memento of his daughter, a perfectly preserved severed finger. It served to remind him of the price of dealing with the criminals of the city. He chewed on his lip while thinking the man's words over. He finally said, "Fine, you'll have your delay of execution and your transfer. If I see you again, you will spend the rest of your life in jail." 
"I'm glad we were able to come to this agreement," the man said. "You are correct that I invalidate our agreement by speaking freely with you. Your men would know you did this as a result of our meeting. Therefore, I'm sorry." 
As Dolorrak started to ask what the man meant, a sharp pain struck him in the stomach. The man had kicked the desk into the Colonel. Angrily, Dolorrak tried to stand, but the man leapt onto the desk, pinning him, and punched him in the face repeatedly. 
Dolorrak awoke to the prayer of St. Cuthbert. Groggily, he stared at the acolyte who tended to his aching head. Several constables looked on with concern. Sergeant Lonne stood at attention and said, "Sir, we think this may have been a distraction. The archivist reports that someone just stole some files about suspected slavers. What are our orders?" 
Clever little bastard, Dolorrak thought. With the power of St. Cuthbert surging through him, he bellowed, "What do you think? Find him and arrest him! If he shows his face around here again, stop him and don't ask questions! Go!" 
After the room cleared, Dolorrak turned his attention to the paperwork scattered around the office. He picked up a blank piece of parchment and an unbroken bottle of ink. He wrote, "Kesser is close to breaking. We need just a few more weeks to confirm his story, and then justice can be served."

# Chapter 14: "Quo Vadis" by Joseph L. Selby

Opulent fails to describe the room. Blue and green tapestries woven of exquisite fabrics from exotic locations by the holiest of women line the wall. The value of one could feed a family of five for two years. Ten of them hang on the four walls wedged between gold-plated sconces and bejeweled ornamentations representing the god Xerbo in every conceivable art form. The desk is a highly polished cherry wood, gifted to the high priest of Dyvers by the high priest of Greyhawk earlier this year. It was a scandal when Asyth Zomawyn accepted it, but the man—quickly approaching fifty years of age—has heard the gossip of saints, sinners, and statesmen. He knows when to be concerned. The desk is a fleeting matter. 
As is Lord Lenthenius Shandareth of the House Shandareth. Asyth knows him to be an elf that pursues the path of least resistance; a charmer most times, but a con artist when needed. Which role he is playing today, the high priest of Xerbo is not sure, but the futile attempt by the elven lord to hoodwink him is an amusing distraction from the daily routine. 
“These prices are scandalous!” the elf shouts with mock horror. He has been tithing to the Cathedral of the Dragon Turtle since he assumed the mantle of leadership of his house, and at the end of each year, he arrives to bargain. “You can’t honestly expect any self-respecting businessman—especially not a member of the Gentry!—to submit to your extortion! It is criminal, your reverence. Absolutely criminal! One of your factors or servitors or swabbies or whatever you call them are most assuredly conducting some type of embezzlement to suggest that House Shandareth pay the church such exorbitant sums.” The elf breathes heavily for effect, attempting to show the high priest how the matter distresses him so. It is a challenge for the cleric to keep a straight face, but not wanting to scare away the lordling too early, he composes himself and leans forward, scratching his chin with his hand, pretending to take the matter seriously. 
“I understand your concerns, Lord Shandareth,” Zomawyn responds, nodding his head slowly. “I hope you can appreciate that the scroll you are now holding is not an invoice imparted on your house by the great Dragon Turtle, but simply a guide we his earthly servants provide for his faithful. This cathedral has, over the years, conducted extensive research on the tithing of our most benevolent contributors. The datum we gathered from such research facilitates the parchment you now hold in your hand.” 
“Captain Zomawyn, I must protest! The Dragon Turtle is not the only sea god with a faith or temple represented in Dyvers. Others lay claim to our coin as well and the sailors will not disembark until all their superstitions are satisfied. Surely it is equitable that the sums as you list here should be appropriately partitioned among the faiths so that all may be appeased?” The statement is a mixture of question and opinion, Shandareth failing to commit to either course fully and ending up somewhere in the middle. He screws up his face, frustrated at his own mistake. He is a better diplomat than this, and both men know it. 
“What value did the families offer to the Dragon Turtle and how fully did he bestow his grace upon them? The median of those tithes allowed us to determine an appropriate suggestion for the congregation. You are under no obligation, lawfully or spiritually, to give us a copper. But you are asking for the Dragon Turtle’s blessing and have asked us his clergy for our suggestion on an appropriate sacrifice that would earn his favor. We have in turn supplied you with an answer. Take that value and split it among all the faiths of Dyvers for all I am concerned. Your ships and your gold are your business,” Lord Shandareth perks up at this comment. Perhaps he has survived his blunder. “…as the Nyr Dyv and the ships that sail upon her are the business of the Dragon Turtle,” Asyth appends. 
“But your eminence!” Shandareth squeals. “We do not wish to anger the Dragon Turtle or besmirch his divinity, but House Shandareth cannot afford the expected offering. We are a lowly but faithful house eking out a living with the few ships we own.” The elf’s face looks desperate, and Asyth chokes down a guffaw. The man is a skilled actor, he admits, but his claims are so far beyond truth that not even the mummer’s trade can make them believable. 
“Do you enjoy dining at the Tri-Tower Tavern, milord?” Asyth asks gently. 
Shandareth’s face goes blank, the conversation having moved in a direction he had not expected. “Yes, your grace. I find the axebeak fillets to be of the highest quality.” He watches the priest warily. Where is he going with this? 
“I enjoy it myself from time to time. My mother and I dined there the day it opened. I have always been a fan. So much so that I took my lunch there only two days past.” Shandareth’s face falls further, if it is possible. He knows where the priest is taking this. “I was distracted during my meal by quite a lovely half-elven woman. Not being married myself, I felt no sense of shame in admiring her beauty, but was disappointed when she was joined by her companion, a very handsome elven man of some stature by the look of him.” Asyth’s grin finally escapes. He had baited the hook and the lordling had bitten hard. “He talked quite loudly about a shipment on its way to Admundfort, and the profit he would be reaping on the venture. The sum seemed quite substantial.” 
“What a fortunate fellow,” Shandareth mutters, giving up. “I must have come to see the wrong Zomawyn,” he threw in half-under his voice. 
“If you’ll excuse me, Lord Shandareth,” Asyth says, standing up, not acknowledging the insult, “but I have a prior engagement that I must attend to.” The two bow ceremoniously, and the elven lord leaves. It is not the first time Asyth Zomawyn has been compared to his brother, Jereader, the high priest of Zilchus. Although the younger of the two brothers followed his mother’s faith and joined the church of Xerbo, his childhood was spent competing with Jereader for his father’s favor, their father being a retired high priest of Zilchus himself. Perhaps he has retained some of those teachings still. The insult bothers him little, especially when he sees the promissory note from House Shandareth sitting in the offering bowl outside of his office. Asyth smiles wryly and begins whistling a happy tune. He does not walk more than a few steps before he sees the young girl waiting anxiously in the antechamber. Although her attire appears wealthy, her disposition clearly marks her as a servant. One that Asyth knows well. 
“Is it my father,” he asks without saying hello to Apiova, his mother’s handmaid. “Has it happened? 
“We do not know, Master Asyth,” the girl answers timidly. 
“Stupid girl,” he barks. “How do you not know if a man has died?” He is not so much angry at her, but the girl with her vague answer provides an adequate outlet for his frustrations. His father’s condition has steadily worsened since the Kesser Massacre of CY 595 no matter the spells or remedies the Zomawyn brothers have tried. The two most powerful clerics in the city, perhaps in their respective faiths, and neither have been able to cure the illness consuming their father’s mind. The girl is a reminder of his own failure. “Well?” 
“Your father can no longer sit, stand, or walk of his own accord, but he still breathes,” she replies, her voice barely above a whisper. Apiova had always favored Asyth between the two Zomawyn brothers. He always brought her candies when he came to visit. But over the course of the last year, he has grown increasingly mean-spirited. She no longer looks forward to his visits like she once did. 
“Go to the fifth floor of the Tri-Tower Tavern. You will find there Kael Lord Herall. Tell him an emergency has arisen, and I will reschedule when time allows.” Without another word, Asyth strides from the antechamber and makes for his mother’s home in the Royal District. 
Apiova had spoken plainly but true. The man’s father, a great figure in Dyvers during his own time, now lies helpless in his own bed. His meanderings, previously the various tenets of the Zilchan faith, are now meaningless gibberish: random names and half-sided decades-old conversations. Elsewhere in the room, Asyth’s mother sits at the side of the bed, patting her husband’s forehead with a damp cloth. At the bed’s foot, sitting in silent but determined thought, Asyth’s older brother Jereader, the current high priest of Zilchus, stares at his father as if he could merely will the sickness away. 
“Hunter, Stonehelm, Zomawyn, Silvermoon, Eritrian, Margus, Pengallen, Darkeyes,” his father whispers. His eyes are glazed over with a white film, dulling the iris into a Morlock-like gray. 
“Mother?” Asyth’s voice is softer than when he spoke to Apiova. 
“It won’t be long now,” she says resolutely. “You should prepare yourself, precious.” 
“Yes it’s horrible. But it has to be done. For the city,” father whispers to no one. 
“Don’t say that, mother,” he barks defiantly. “We have not exhausted all of our options.” 
“Yes we have,” Jereader says, matter-of-factly, speaking for the first time. “Brardovia Vallan, Nyderia Ceriwien, Melikor Haoahan, even Amirelle Ediacan have all come and examined him, brother. And when the high priests of the Great Guildmaster, the Dragon Turtle, the Sun Father, the Lady of Fate, the Reasoned One, and the Summer Queen all fail to arrest the condition, we have most certainly exhausted all of our options.” Jereader gives his brother a look of contempt. For decades the two had been arch rivals, the heads of the two most important faiths in Dyvers. Their competition grew so fierce that for many years they had not even spoken to one another. It was their parents that had brought them back together, widdling away at their stubbornness with family dinners until the Kesser Massacre finally reminded them that blood was thicker than gold. A year of affection and cooperation finds them fraying at the seams, their parents—specifically their father’s illness—now tears them apart. 
“Hunter, Stonehelm, Zomawyn, Silvermoon, Eritrian, Margus, Pengallen, Darkeyes,” father whispers again. “It’s for the good of the city.” 
“Options remain, Jereader,” Asyth states with almost a growl, ignoring his father’s delusions. 
“What would you do, Asyth? Should we let that monster Xullithan try his hand? Shall we invite the Reaper into our home? No. It is finished. In a time like this, all you can do is—” 
“Cut your losses,” Asyth interrupts, his voice like ice. “That’s what you were going to say, isn’t it? In a time like this, all you can do is cut your losses. Always the servant of the Money Counter you heartless bastard.” The two men, their father forgotten, press together nose-to-nose, each wanting to release his anguish and frustration in a rain of righteous fire. The air is electric with tension, each man standing silent, staring into the eyes of his sibling, begging for a reason to grab his holy symbol and evoke holy destruction. 
“Stop this now!” Their mother’s voice is shrill but commanding, cowing them both instantly. They step away, blinking uncomfortably, shame mixing with the anger. “Your father will not want his last moments spent watching his sons fight one another.” Both men think that, if they had not been there, their mother would be crying. But ever the matron, she refuses to be weak when her family needs her. 
“In a time like this, all you can do is grieve,” Jereader says flatly, a hint of apology in his voice. Asyth stares at him questioningly. Had he changed what he was going to say to avoid their mother’s wrath, or was he sincere? Over the course of the last year, Asyth has learned just how much heart his brother has hidden beneath his piles of gold. Could he be sincere? Not knowing the answer to his brother’s intentions, he turns instead to his father. 
“I can do something,” Asyth whispers, pulling out his holy symbol. The bejeweled dragon turtle had become something of a local legend. Struck from his chest while he and his brother had fought back-to-back in the pit of the hells, Jereader had evoked the name of the gods, using the symbol of a rival god to beg a miracle, the end result being the banishment of Jereader, Asyth, and the cambion Kurault back to Oerth. 
Father whispers, “Hunter, Stonehelm, Zomawyn, Silvermoon, Eritrian, Margus, Pengallen, Darkeyes.” 
“What are you doing, Asyth?” Jereader asks seeing the holy symbol, shocked. The younger does not answer, but presses the gold and platinum symbol against his father’s chest hard enough that the crust of jewels will live marks in the flesh. “Mother?” 
“Precious, what are you doing?” She is not as nervous as her eldest son, but she does notice the strange change in demeanor of her youngest. “Both you and your brother have cast every applicable spell known to the priests of Oerth. You have beseeched every guru, magi, wizard, sorcerer, and alchemist. Nothing has worked! Please let it go. Your father has lived a long and rich life. Let him find his way to the next one.” She places her hand on her son’s shoulder. His muscles are tense, rigid. Something about his posture, his attitude, the stern look on his face wakes a dread in the pit of her stomach. “Asyth? What are you doing?” 
Again he does not answer. His eyes are focused solely on his father, intent, piercing. His lips move rapidly in a succession of unspoken words. Both Jereader and his mother look at one another, finally sharing each other’s concern. The elder brother reaches out to seize Asyth’s arm and end whatever folly he might be attempting, but his hand jerks back instinctively as a wreath of blue fire envelops his brother. 
“Asyth!” he yells. “Whatever you think you’re doing, you must stop!” 
“Forty years, Jereader,” Asyth shouts back, finally answer. “I have given forty years. I have served faithfully for forty years, not asking for anything. I am owed, and I will be damned if I will be ignored now that I am in need. Do you hear me? You won’t ignore me any longer!” The priest of the Great Guildmaster stops, confused. With a sense of dread, he knows that his brother is not talking about him. “Xerbo, I call you by name. For 540 days I have prayed for your mercy, and for 540 days you have ignored me. Xerbo, I call you by name. You owe me!” 
Eyes narrowed with a zealot’s belief, Asyth does not see the small, meek hand bolt through the fire surrounding his body, but only feels the shock of pain as it slaps him across the face. The aura of fire falls away, and his eyes wide, knocked from his trance. The holy symbol goes limp in his hand as he stands stunned, staring at his mother. 
“Blasphemy!” she hisses. “I will not have it in this house, no matter how many high priests I have birthed. Do you hear me young man?” The look on her face is incredulous, but Asyth doesn’t hear anything she says. The thunder of her blow still rings in his mind, drowning out the world around him. Through the chaos, images flood into his mind: distant lands, places, structures, objects, scents, sounds, words, rituals…answers. 
“The Dragon Turtle be praised,” he whispers. He turns quickly and walks from the house without another word. 
“It’s for the good of the city,” father continues to whisper. “We must kill the magister…for the good of the city.”

# Chapter 15: "Embargo" by Kevin Elmore

The winds were favorable for the Sea Largesse, as it swiftly sailed through the Selintan River . Captain Pete Scofflaw stood on the bow, admiring the perfect weather for such a profitable run. For the past 11 weeks, Pete captained his own ship and relished in the change of pace. While adventuring was profitable, Pete worriedly reflected upon the many close calls he experienced. He did not let this concern show, especially to his crew or the crew of the Sea Largesse. 
Captain Pete hated captaining this ship. Its sails were full and its hull was sturdy, but it wasn't his ship. Captain Karl McGraw commissioned Pete to sail this ship, as he had to tend to business with the Merchant's Guild. The price was right, and Pete took advantage of his own ship's inactivity to have her serviced. The Sea Largesse was a good cargo ship, but it wasn't Pete's. 
A sharp cry interrupted Pete's reverie, "Ships ahoy! Eight! Flying Greyhawk flags!" 
The cry concerned Pete, but he did not wish to alarm the crew; they already were put off guard by sailing under an unfamiliar captain. Pete let loose a hearty chuckle and said, "Clearly, these seamen are gathered to see a real sailor in action, boys. Stay the course, and let's show them what real seamanship is about." He concluded with a throaty laugh that put a smile on the sailors' faces. An expert at emotional obfuscation, Pete did not betray his true feelings about the situation. 
Pulling out his spyglass, Pete studied the two rows of ships stretching across the river. They were sleek, designed to chase other ships, and armed with the finest in nautical warfare. If these were slavers posing as naval ships, the Sea Largesse wouldn't stand a chance in a chase. Pete wrapped one curl of hair around his index finger, a signal to his first mate, Jonty, to prepare for trouble. At this distance, every action on the deck of the Sea Largesse would not go unnoticed in the crow's nests of the eight ships. Pete had to play it cool and look nonchalant. 
True to Pete's orders, the helmsman pointed the Sea Largesse between two of the ships flying the flags of Greyhawk. They remained stationary, but one of the ships in the second row moved to intercept. As the Sea Largesse sailed between the ships, they turned and closed in behind Pete. Pete's concern turned to fear, but he retained his notorious smirk, telling the world that he didn't care what happened to him. 
The aggressive maneuver of the Greyhawk ship forced the Sea Largesse to slow to a stop. Pete stood steadfastly on the bow of the Sea Largesse. "Avast," he shouted to the encroaching ship, "I know that your helmsman learned how to guide a ship from a desert centaur with no legs and a penchant for diseased orc trollops, but he should know to look for the big empty blue space and make headway toward it." Despite the dire situation, the crew of the Sea Largesse chuckled. 
To Pete's surprise, a woman dressed in the finest uniform of the Greyhawk navy stepped onto the railing of the intercepting ship. "Oh, sailing advice from a Dyvers merchant," she retorted. "I'll keep that in mind when I need to fertilize my grandmother's garden." The sailors on her ship laughed, but Pete noticed that none of the heavily armed soldiers wearing the tabard of Greyhawk cracked a smile. Despite the colorful persiflage between two captains, the Greyhawk ship meant business. A pity, too, thought Pete. He was starting to become fond of her. 
"All right, "conceded Pete, "What is the meaning of this?" 
The captain became serious and said, "By order of the Lord Mayor of the Free City of Greyhawk, all vessels daring to fly, or cowardly enough to hide, the flag of Dyvers are not permitted to trespass in Greyhawk waters. As you are brazenly stupid enough to fly the flag of Dyvers, your ship is to be seized. Assuming you carry nothing illicit, you and your crew are free to walk back to Dyvers." Her voice emphasized the word, "walk." 
"What is this?" exploded Pete. "I have an honest cargo. You have no right to detain a simple merchant…" 
"You are 'Handsome Pete'?" she interrupted. "The one called Pete Scofflaw? Such an appropriate name, as you scoff at our law, just as your tart of a magister scoffs at it. I can see by your confused expression that this must be news to you. Regardless, your ignorance will not serve you. I have been instructed to inform you that Magister Hunter's flagrant abuse of the treaties of the land will no longer be tolerated." 
"Look, lady, I don't deal with politics. I just deliver…" 
"You will address me as Captain Hunnington!" she barked. "You are indeed dealing with politics, as soon as you made the effort to break through the blockade. You will shut your trap, or my men will carve out your handsome tongue!" Pete's face reddened with anger. Any fondness he may have had for Captain Hunnington evaporated in mere seconds. 
Captain Hunnington continued, "In response to actions taken by Magister Larissa Hunter of the city of Dyvers, whereby she knowingly and illegally seized the village of Tricaster and its surrounding lands, the Lord Mayor of the Free City of Greyhawk has expressed disapproval and informed Magister Hunter that no Dyvers vessel may freely pass through the Selintan until reparations are made to the rightful sovereign of Greyhawk. The missive was sent to Magister Hunter with the express understanding that the shipping guilds would be made aware." 
"I've been told no such thing. This is preposterous!" 
"It is not our fault that your magister places her pride above the businesses of Dyvers. Our orders are to seize your vessel. When your magister has come to her senses, the Lord Mayor will consider returning the ship." 
Pete exclaimed. "I have an expensive delivery to make. Surely you can't expect me to…" 
"To uphold the law? No, Captain Pete Scofflaw, I do not expect you to uphold the law. That is why you have no choice but to comply under threat of execution. Perhaps you can ask your magister why she ignored the Lord Mayor's decree and did not share it with you." 
Realization dawned on Pete. "That son-of-a-cur McGraw!" he bellowed. "He suspected this! He wanted me to try the waters. I'll keel haul him when I get the chance." 
Captain Hunnington stared evenly at Pete and let loose a tiny smirk as she said, "You'll have your chance after you plod your dusty feet home. Prepare to be boarded and make it quick. Another ship blatantly flying the flag of Dyvers is heading our way."

# Intercalary Chapter 16: “A Little Housecleaning by Kevin Elmore

These events take place preceding DYV7-02 Chain of Lies in the late winter of CY 597.

Nighttime has always been my favorite time.  The City of Sails writhes hectically during the day like a wounded animal trying to thrash its way out of a snare.  When the sun dips below the horizon and removes its protection, the darkness creeps over the city, silencing everything it touches.  The night belongs to us.  While merchants, politicians, and visitors hide behind locked doors to keep the darkness out, we glide through the alleys in the cracks of the city, unseen by those that make the city thrive during the day.  Ultimately, all of their sunlit works pay off for those of us who dwell in the shadows.  
Most humans do not dwell in the darkness like I do.  But then, most humans are not willing to do what I do.  I've adapted to the darkness at an early age, and it has paid off within the alliance of criminal guilds.  Anyone who is worth anything learns to embrace the darkness.  Those who do not recognize the gloom as an ally eventually find themselves bleeding in an alley, victims of those who use the shadows as an advantage.  
That's where I am:  In the darkness.  My night vision is above average for a human, but it does not help in the stark blackness of the Kraken Company Warehouse.  Instead, I rely on magic.  Thanks to a colleague's spell, I can see perfectly in the darkness, even if it is in black and white.  Sometimes, bare skill is not enough to excel in the Enforcer's Guild.
That's what I do:  I enforce.  If some feisty pickpocket feels that he has an inherent right to lift someone's coin pouch without paying his dues, then people like me track him down and convince him to stop stealing from people.  Freelance thieves easily see the appeal of a career change when they can only use three fingers to pick a pocket.  
Rarely are my talents needed within the guilds.  The Alliance does not just recruit any yahoo off the street.  It seeks those that can show it the proper respect.  If a thief is inducted into the Alliance, he already knows not to meddle in the affairs of sanctioned pickpockets, fences, and slavers.  Obviously, someone is causing trouble within the organization, because I'm here.
A subtle snort sounds beside me.  It's professional courtesy.  The human beside me is wearing a magical ring that renders him invisible.  It's standard policy to let your presence be known to anyone you work with so he knows that you haven't ditched him or moved behind him.  I hardly need that assurance from Bron Hudson, the Footpad Guildmaster.  He commands a lot of respect and no longer needs to get his hands dirty.  If he plans to betray me, the blade wouldn't come from him.  A typically nonviolent lot, the Footpads rely more on stealth than brawn, especially the halflings.  I hate halflings; they are lazy and rely too much on their size to hide.  I'd rather work with an orcish-tainted Enforcer than a halfling.  With an orcspawn, I know that he can hold his own in a fight. 
The hourly bell of the shrine of Kurell rings hollowly in the night.  It's just a matter of time before people wise up to the chimes of Kurell being used to signal nighttime activities; no timekeeper can be that wrong about the time that often.  According to Bron, the prey is going to enter the warehouse soon.  I unstop the glass vial in my belt and drink its contents.  As my skin tingles with the invisibility potion, I place the empty vial back into my belt.  I don't need to worry about leaving evidence in this building, but it pays to stay in practice.  Bron lets out another soft snort, and I reply in kind.
Moonlight enters the building, as a plank in the wall swings upward.  I can clearly see three figures enter through the gap.  A halfling steps through and peers into the darkness.  Judging from his stance, I can see that he is one of the deep halflings that are accustomed to the blackness of subterranean homes.  His eyes rest briefly on me, and I slowly place my hand near the grip of my mace.  The halfling looks past me and continues scanning the warehouse.  He lightly snaps his fingers twice, and he a gnome and a human fall into place behind him.  Despite the human's attempt to hide her ears, I see the elven blood in her veins. 
As my orders instruct, I simply stand in the darkness and watch the trio steal into the warehouse and replace the plank.  Counting my heartbeats, I know I only have a couple of minutes left of this potion.  Whatever they do, it better be quick.  The halfling carefully steps over a loose board, mirrored by the gnome.  The half-elf stubs her toe, sending the board clattering across the floor.  She curses and tells the gnome to get the light going.  In the darkness, the halfling smirks at the gnome, who smirks back.  The whole exchange alarms me, but I can't quite place my finger on it.  
Once the gnome lights his torch, the three of them examine the crates.  They are looking for something in particular.  The elfspawn sees it and points to an iron cage holding a sturdy wooden crate.  She tells the halfling to hold the torch for the gnome as he digs in his pouch for the lock picks.  The gnome diligently works on the lock while the halfling stands behind him with the torch.  As I understand it, most Footpad operations require only one burglar.  Sometimes, they'll recruit a lookout or two, but having three Footpads in one building is very unorthodox.  This bothers me even more.
With a dull clink, the lock unfastens in the gnome's hand.  He shoots the half-elf a triumphant grin and slowly lifts the lock out of the cage's latch.  As soon as the gnome turns his attention back to the iron cage, the elfspawn steps behind her colleagues and draws a dagger.  I refrain from calling out a warning.  For one, I have been hired to simply watch until Bron gives me a different order.  For another, I'm a little curious as to how this drama plays out.  There is precious little backstabbing within the Alliance; this may prove entertaining.  
As the gnome frees the lock entirely, the half-elf swiftly brings the knife down on the shoulder of the halfling.  He yelps in pain and swings his torch at her.  He stops in mid-swing as the poison courses through his veins, paralyzing him.  His frozen rictus stares at the half-elf accusingly.  Burnt flesh reaches my nostril as the torch singes his hand.  The poor bastard is frozen with the flames lightly licking his skin.  
Instinctively, the gnome drops the lock and takes a step toward the darkness.  The half-elf's dagger heads him off, and the gnome stops short, the point gently pressing against his throat.  The gnome looks briefly at the halfling, who is even unable to turn and meet his gaze.  The gnome angrily hisses, "You don't think you can get away with murdering us, do you, Glarazel? Betrayal will not go over well for you."
The half-elf snorts and says, "Betraying a couple of traitors?  I think I can live with that on my conscience."  She casts a glance directly at us.  I can tell by her eyes that she can't pinpoint us, but she clearly knows she has an audience.  I'm finding this drama more and more entertaining.  The halfling's eyes water from the pain of the torch, and I have to fight the urge to burst out laughing in a bout of schadenfreude.  
The gnome sputters, "Traitors?  You have us confused with someone else.  We have been nothing but loyal to the Alliance." The gnome's words raise an alarm within me. This gnome is barely an initiate in the Footpad's Guild; such people are often ignorant of the alliance of guilds. Clearly, he's more educated than he's let on. 
Chuckling, Glarazel continues looking in our direction.  She's no longer talking to the gnome; she's addressing Bron Hudson himself.  She says, "Everyone in the Footpad's Guild learns on the first day that Bron Hudson's warehouse is strictly off limits, so why would you agree with me when I suggested hitting this place? You'd have to be idiotically ambitious or idiotically ignorant."  
The gnome lets out a pained chuckle; it's pretty hard to give a throaty laugh when your throat is in danger of perforation.  He crows, "You fool!  You played into our hands.  We agreed only so we could win a favor with the guild master by turning you in."  His composure changes as he continues, "Since we made it this far, I'll keep quiet about your involvement, and we can split the profits.  No one has to die here. Not even you could explain being the sole survivor of a job this big."  I simply have to admire someone with the chutzpah to try to turn this situation to his advantage.
Glarazel's face contorts into exaggerated concern.  It's obvious that she isn't taking the gnome's offer seriously, but her mock contemplation amuses me.  "I don't know, gnome," she muses.  "It is awfully tempting.  I'll have to check with Guild Master Bron for permission."  She cries out in our direction, "So, boss, should I filch your goods and live happily ever after?"
Realizing the nature of the ruse, the gnome panics.  He grabs the half-elf's clenched fingers with both of his hands.  He lifts his feet quickly and lets his body fall limp.  The knifepoint plunges into his throat effortlessly, and his lifeless hands drop to his sides.  The dead weight is too much for Glarazel, and she drops the dagger and the gnome.  "By Kurell's envy, I'm sorry, "she says.  "I did not think he would do that."  
"No matter," replies the voice beside me.  Dismissing the invisibility, Bron strides out to meet with her.  Wrinkling his nose in disdain, he wrests the torch out of the halfling's raw and blistered hand.  "You're right that these two are in cahoots.  I'm sure we only need to question one.  Still, summon a priest so we may question the dead."  Bron kneels by the dead gnome and examines the wound.  "Come to think of it, summon one who knows how to deal with his kind."  
As Glarazel exits through the planks, Bron looks in my direction.  "Find out what they've learned about us and who else knows," he orders.  "Tell me how long they've betrayed us.  His life is not important to me, so you can reward him with a quick death if you feel he's compliant." Bron extinguishes the torch, turns his back on the two of us, and exits through the planks.  
Alone in the darkness, I watch the paralyzed halfling.  The poison should start to wear off just before the invisibility potion does.  The halfling gets one last feeling of hope just before he sees me barrel down on him.  I hope he's not compliant.  I hope he struggles and denies everything.  I hope all 10 of his fingers are still intact.  Have I mentioned that I hate halflings?

# Intercalary Chapter 17: “The Razing of Tricaster” by Kevin Elmore

The following Intercalary Chapter follows Dyv7-04 Throw Open the Gates of Heaven. Campaign consequences follow.

Helsim Lord Grift stared impassively at the emerald. He mused briefly on the fact that the gem could buy enough food and clothing for all of Box Town for several months. The facets reflected light flawlessly, which was why it was an ideal decoration in the study of Grift Manor. It was handed down to Helsim by his father. Soundlessly, the gem disintegrated before Helsim's eyes. 
The emerald's destruction did not concern Helsim. Only the still face of his niece, Vanta Ember, demanded his attention. Even after the gem vanished upon completion of the priest's chanting, Vanta's eyes remained closed. Her chest did not rise, and the fatal slash across her neck remained unclosed. To Helsim's dismay, his niece did not live. 
"I am sorry," the Pelorite priest said. "She does not rise." 
Helsim sighed, but he had already accepted the loss of Vanta. His daughter, however, was closer to Vanta, and she took the death more personally. She reached into her pouch and pulled out a ruby, even more valuable than the emerald that vanished like smoke. Through clenched teeth, she said, "Then try it again." 
The priest swallowed hard and said, "Lady Shandara, please. I have prayed twice for her body to live. The gods simply forbid it." 
"They'll listen if you offer them this!" Shandara shouted, thrusting the ruby in front of the priest's eyes. "You will make them listen!" 
Helsim barked, "Shandara!" The priest looked relieved at his intervention. In a softer tone, he said, "We have consumed two gems already. Must we squander more when her fate has already been decreed?" 
Casting her father an incredulous look, Shandara said, "You're concerned about money? My cousin was killed defending Tricaster—your niece—and you're worried about how much money we'll spend?" Tears swelled in her already-puffy eyes. "How can you be so callous, father?" she spat. 
Helsim reached out and embraced Shandara. She struggled and ultimately collapsed in his arms, shuddering as the sobs wracked her body. Helsim was not accustomed to his daughter succumbing to emotional upheaval. Always the paladin, she was often cool and impassive about death. He stroked her hair and said, "No, I would sell everything to bring Vanta back. The gods have spoken, and we are unable to defy the gods." He looked to the priest, who nodded his assent. Helsim pulled away and stared into Shandara's eyes. "Let the priests complete their tasks for those we believe can still be saved," he pleaded. "Every attempt to raise those who fell in Tricaster has so far failed." 
"Defend?" Shandara let out a sardonic laugh. "Is that what you call that devastation? Tricaster is completely destroyed. Several hundred people gave their lives for the village, and they did so for naught!" 
Shaking his head, Helsim said, "Not so. Those people kept the horde occupied. The refugees made it to Southguard because of the efforts of those people. Let us not treat these martyrs lightly. If Vanta was not there, who knows how many refugees would have perished? And perhaps her sacrifice can help someone else, as well." He took the ruby from Shandara's hand and placed it in the priest's palm. He nodded to the priest and guided Shandara out of the resuscitation room. The bright light of Pelor shone through the vestibule's windows, bathing Shandara in an unflattering light that showed several premature wrinkles on her face. For a moment, Helsim noted, she looked older than her own mother. 
For several minutes they sat on a bench in silence. Suddenly, Shandara said, "I killed her, you know." 
"What do you mean?" asked Helsim. 
"Vanta. She died because of me. She was in Tricaster because I did not do my duty." 
With uncertainty, Helsim said, "I'm afraid I'm not following." 
"Four days before the orcs overwhelmed Tricaster, Her Excellency, Magister Larissa Hunter, sent us a message. It proclaimed that she was abdicating the lands around Tricaster to Greyhawk as a show of goodwill. In fact, she relinquished much of the control of the Gnarley Forest we claimed 2 years ago." 
"I don't understand. I never saw such a missive." 
Tears began anew on Shandara's face as she said, "That's because I hid it from you, father." Helsim stared at her blankly. "I simply did not believe that Hunter would actually do that. We worked so hard to watch over the lands, and I couldn't believe that Hunter would just give it all up, just like that. I thought she was making a foolish mistake. I figured I would just sit on it for a week, give her time to rethink the order." 
Shandara stared numbly at the floor. "I thought the magister was wrong—wrong and weak—and Vanta paid the price for my hubris," she continued. "They all did." 
Helsim silently watched her. Shandara sat in abject horror, disgusted at her inaction. Helsim cleared his throat and said, "It's not your fau…" 
"You know damn well that it is!" Shandara shouted. She was standing now, her hands shaking. "I did not bother to tell Mayor Karessa that they were to move back to Dyvers. Those people would be alive in Dyvers today if I had. I signed their death warrants!" 
The outburst drew some looks from concerned worshipers, but they resumed their prayers. Helsim let out a deep sigh. "I blamed myself for the One-Day War." 
"What?" she asked, startled out of her self-chastisement by the change in topic. 
Nodding solemnly, Helsim said, "Oh yes, I did. Every time I heard about the men, women, and children who suffered at the hands of Pengallen's soldiers, my heart broke because I felt responsible for them." 
"That's absurd," protested Shandara. "Derreg Pengallen was a megalomaniac who abused his power and turned the soldiery against the city. How can you possibly feel responsible for what a vile bastard that man was?" 
"Because I didn't realize what a vile bastard that man was," he retorted. "I supported him in the Gentry Council. I thought he had the right idea, and I stood by him. I opposed House Grandhearth in favor of Pengallen. I encouraged him, Shandara, and that encouragement just fed his ego and his thirst for power. If my head was on straight, I could have seen just what a villain Derreg was. I could have curtailed him. Instead, I urged him on, and my support led to the slaughter and violation of many Dyvers citizens." 
Shandara stood motionless. She said, "I see. I didn't know you feel that way." 
"I don't. Not anymore. I blamed myself for 2 years. It really wasn't until I saw you flogging yourself for Vanta's death that I realized how foolish I was. Derreg was a wretch with or without my encouragement. Even if I thought he had the right idea, I didn't tell Pengallen to recruit only the most depraved and violent men to serve his garrison. I didn't tell his men that it was a good idea to loot the citizens of Dyvers rather than serve them. I was wrong to support Derreg, but the deaths were all because of him. And Vanta's death was because of the orcs." 
Standing, Helsim took his daughter's arms in his hands. "We've made mistakes, Shandara," he said, "and we must account for them. I've spent the past 2 years trying to undo the damage that Pengallen did. I still don't feel like I've fully cleansed my tarnished soul, but I try to make life better for everyone living here. You are a paladin; you already work toward the betterment of others." 
Shandara looked up sharply. Sheepishly, she said, "It's interesting you should say that. I think I know why I've felt so confused lately. I've shirked my duty. Even if it did not lead to the deaths of many, I still behaved inappropriately. While the Lady of the Forest does cherish the ability to act independently, I have sworn to be her mortal champion among men, and I've acted poorly in that role. I must think about what I've done, and I must make amends." Pulling away from Helsim's grip, she softly said, "I suppose today is a good day to begin that journey, so I'll bid my farewell." 
"You will think about what I said?" Helsim asked. "You understand that you are not to blame for Vanta's death?" 
"I'll keep that under consideration, father," she said with a wan smile. "May you roar long into the night." With that, Shandara turned and walked out of the cathedral. 

At the same time that Shandara left the cathedral of Pelor, a man woke up deep in the Gnarley Forest. The freezing air burned his lungs, and he wondered why his body would be warm in such a cold environment. He painfully sat up, pushing a great weight off of his chest. As his hands came off of the frozen corpses of orcs and humans, revulsion wracked his body, and he fought the urge to vomit. 
With his body exposed to the elements, the man shivered uncontrollably. He stripped the cloaks off of the corpses and put them over his shoulders, unmindful of the caked blood. The last thing he remembered was fighting within Tricaster. Men were dying around him, and he cut down orcs gloriously. He remembered the mayor of Tricaster standing between him and glory, but what happened exactly? 
"You failed," a voice told him. Startled, the man looked at the dull red sword in his hand. It felt heavy to him. 
"W-w-what?" he stammered. "I remember orcs rushing me. I was doomed." 
"I saved you," the voice sneered. "Not that you were worth saving in the eyes of the Most Glorious. You did not kill the mayor, so you must suffer and atone." 
Realization struck the man. "No," he said, "I did not mean to fail. She was too well protected. The odds were simply impossible." 
"You can only succeed when the odds are impossible! All other deaths are simply routine. You failed to fulfill your duty. You are not worthy to accompany me" 
"Please, no!" the man begged. "I'll kill whatever you want. Just give me a direction." 
"You will know when the time is right. Head north, servant. We will strike fear in the hearts of those we will meet." 
The man staggered to his feet and staggered through the snow-covered trees. On the wind, he heard a faint voice. It whimpered in the breeze, "Kill me…" 

Campaign consequences: 
Tricaster is no longer available in the Dyvers Town and City Project and all current structures have been destroyed.

# Epilogue: “Inheritance” by Kevin Elmore

The following Intercalary Chapter follows DyvInt8-01 The End.

Despite the thousands of people killed in Dyvers during the Pomarj invasion, Lord Lambert Hoffer's death came as a surprise.  A few people concocted conspiracy theories that Lord Hoffer was assassinated, but such rumors were dismissed.  A few of the Pomarj forces preferred the up-close feel of a dagger kill than the sloppy greataxe slaughter.    
The Gentry member's body lay in the vestibule of the Hoffer Manor.  Terrence Lord Grift, Klabert Lord Grandhearth, and Lord Walgrim Emiriam watched somberly as the priest prepared the trappings for the resurrection spell.  The robed priest chanted and entreated the soul to return to Lord Hoffer's empty shell.  He held aloft the large diamond, sacrificing it to the gods in return for Lambert's soul.  With a flourish, the priest bowed suddenly, and the diamond vanished, consumed by the spell.
Lord Grift, Lord Grandhearth, and Lord Emiriam held their breaths and watched expectantly.  All eyes turned to the still man's face, waiting for the eyelids to flicker and snap open.  They tensed, expecting to hear the man's lungs take in air for the first time in 2 days.  A long pause passed, and soon the three Gentry members realized that Lord Lambert Hoffer did not choose to return to the living.    
Woefully, Lord Grift spoke first, "It seems the gods do not want my cousins to continue living." Terrence referred also to the permanent death of Venta Ember, his cousin who died defending Tricaster.
Lord Emiriam looked at Lord Grift with surprise.  "My Lord, I thought you hated Lord Hoffer," he said.
Terrence shook his head.  "I don't approve of how he treated my father," he responded, "but he deserved better than this."
Nodding, Lord Grandhearth said, "Aye, he was a good man.  We should not judge him harshly for the actions of his son."  An uncomfortable silence dropped over the vestibule.  The priest quietly stood up and extinguished the candles and incense.  Clearing his throat awkwardly, Klabert Grandhearth said to Terrence Grift, "You do realize that Marsai would be named the rightful heir, don't you?"
Terrence Grift whirled on Klabert.  "You don't mean to pass the estate to that monster," he spat.  "His own father disowned him!  You heard the speech as well as I did!  Don't you dare throw your support for that madman."
"I don't support him.  If it were up to me, I would reassign the entire Hoffer patent back to House Grift where it first began.  But it's not up to me.  Lawfully, Marsai Hoffer is now the head of the Hoffer House."
"But he's a murderer!  He is responsible for the evil cult that threatened to tear the city apart.  Documents have come to light about his pernicious influence…"
Grandhearth interrupted, "The documents have not been verified.  They are still under investigation.  Since Lambert Hoffer did not have time to name his successor, the Gentry Council must recognize Marsai as the new household head.  Since your uncle chose to remain dead, we must assume that he accepts this.  I'm sorry."
Scowling, the young Terrence Grift stormed out of the manor.  Lord Grandhearth addressed the priest and Lord Emiriam, "I apologize for this.  I should really talk to Lord Grift some more.  Can you handle the funeral pyre?"
Lord Walgrim Emiriam bowed, saying, "Of course, my Lord.  You do what must be done."
Gratefully, Klabert Lord Grandhearth left the Hoffer Manor and followed Lord Grift.  Moments later, Walgrim Emiriam locked eyes with the priest, and a wicked smile passed between them.  Invisible laughter filled the air, and a new person appeared from thin air.  Without his disguise, Marsai Hoffer's skin shone with a black oiliness.  His glowing yellow eyes glinted with unbridled joy.  The priest dislodged the diamond from a hidden pouch in his sleeve and tossed it to Marsai. 
"Well, that could not have happened any better if I had planned it," Marsai crowed.  "Lord Marsai Hoffer.  I think I like the sound of that.  How fortunate that it was you who found my dear, departed father, Walgrim."
Walgrim grunted.  "Don't forget this debt, Marsai," he warned. "I still do not consider your past debts to be paid either. I expect to see much more sorrow and violence in the city with the entire Hoffer estate at your disposal."
"Do not fret, old man.  I have a plan for the next 3 years that will cause your toes to curl.  I just need to lay low for a while and find some more competent pawns."
"Fine, lay low, but keep me apprised of your progress," Walgrim snapped.  He suppressed a shudder as he unconsciously held his limp arm.  Incurable, his arm lay dormant for several years.  It had been 4 years since he promised chaos and death for his would-be savior.  Walgrim did not relish waiting 3 years before his benefactor would remove the curse on his arm.
Turning to the priest, Walgrim Emiriam said, "That was a good trick, Jaffet.  Did you honestly pull this off all by yourself?"
The false priest smiled and lowered his hood.  "Of course," Jaffet said, "I promised you that I'd be discreet.  Nobody else knows of this ruse."
Nodding approvingly, Walgrim said, "That is good.  Let's keep it that way."  Walgrim nodded slightly to Marsai.  At the signal, Marsai placed his hand on Jaffet's bare neck.  Poison coursed through Marsai's palm and passed through the young man's neck.  Instantly, Jaffet died. 
Marsai blew toxic flakes off his hand.  He said, "I wonder if my father's murderer is busy."
Incredulous, Walgrim asked, "You mean you honestly did not kill him?"
"Not from lack of trying," Marsai responded, "but that honor goes to a young elven girl named Phelaaneus A'Suult.  I like her pseudonym better:  Brightblade."
"That's good news.  You don't even need a scapegoat.  You have the bona fide murderer within reach, and your name would be vindicated."
"That is tempting," Marsai conceded, "but an elf who masquerades as a little girl and uses the charade to murder someone well guarded would be a great resource.  I think I will find a scapegoat and convince the girl to work for me.  I think this Brightblade will have a bright future."  Marsai laughed raucously at his own joke.
Unimpressed, Lord Walgrim Emiriam turned to leave.  Motioning to Jaffet's corpse, he said, "Clean up this mess, and then clean up your household.  You have a lot to do…Lord Hoffer."

# Epilogue: “Two Magisters” by Kevin Elmore

The following Intercalary Chapter follows DyvInt8-01 The End.

Larissa Hunter stood on the observation platform at the highest point of the palace.  From her vantage point, she surveyed the city of Dyvers.  She felt pride for the defenders of Dyvers as she looked in each direction:  titanic crab carcasses lay where they were slain, tattered yellow sails collected on the docks, and the vast Meadowlands were covered with dead orcs.  Still, her heart sank as she also took in the costs for these victories:  orphans looking for their parents, buildings crushed by the crabs and the Earth Dragon's avatar, and the absence of the entire southern wall.  It would take a long time for Dyvers to recover.    
A figure behind her cleared his throat.  Larissa Hunter nearly allowed her instincts to guide her sword toward the intruder, but she recognized the sound.  She knew that the sword would not find its mark.  Larissa turned slowly and looked upon a well-dressed man.  "Margus," she said, "the balcony is enchanted against flying magic, so I can only assume you traveled through the palace to reach this spot."
Margus bowed exaggeratedly and said, "Most of the secret tunnels were, after all, implemented while I was Magister.  Although, I must profess some sadness.  It appears that some of the tunnels have been sealed.  Fortunately for me, you did not find all of them."
Larissa sneered at Margus, "This is a place for leading, not skulking.  Perhaps if you took your position more seriously, the Gentry would not have had to vote you out of office, and I would not have needed to step forward and clean up your mess."
"Those are harsh words, Captain Hunter."
"That's Magister Hunter!" she spat.  "If you think that you can reclaim the position, then you are sorely mistaken.  I am not the same young, naïve woman you knew 13 years ago. You will have a fight on your hands, and you will lose."
Margus held up his hands in mock surrender.  A crooked smile crossed his face as he said, "Of course, your Excellency.  I mean no offense."  He looked across the cityscape and said, "No man stands a chance in unseating a war hero.  I'm glad that I was not mistaken in promoting you to lead the Free Army all those years ago."
Margus stood next to Larissa Hunter at the railing.  Several minutes of silence passed as they each took in the scenes of destruction.  "Besides," Margus broke the silence, "I've had some time to think during my incarceration at the hands of Lord Pengallen.  My first mistake was heading two groups.  I should have abdicated the Magister seat when I was promoted elsewhere. I won't make that mistake again."
Larissa scoffed, "The Alliance?  I hardly think they're in the position to take you back."
"Poor Larissa," Margus chided, "you do possess some of that naïveté after all.  Do not think that something as trivial as war would stop business.  While your wizards, priests, and merchants looked only to the immediate future of the Pomarj invasion, my people have been looking beyond.  Of course, part of the reason was because we would serve comfortably whether this palace was ruled by you or by Turrosh Mak.  Nothing personal, of course."
Larissa let out a mirthless laugh.  "So, while everyone has been working so hard to defend the city, you collected blackmail and bought friends," she said.  "And now you plan to leech off of the efforts of those who died to defend Dyvers.  You really are a piece of work, Margus."
"Business is still business, Larissa, and you cannot stop it," warned Margus.  "I am a bit sentimental, though.  I've always liked you, and I want you to continue being Magister.  Just don't forget who controls the power. I will keep my people on a short leash for now so the rebuilding can begin."
"Your people? I doubt the Master Thief would approve of you taking over."
"Well played, Larissa," Margus said, "but I know your resources.  You know as well as I do that Timmorn Darkeyes has been missing for several months.  Hammer has given up hope on her returning and agrees to support me as Master Thief.  Surely you can think of worse people taking that role."
Reluctantly, Larissa Hunter acceded, "Better the evil I know than the evil I don't know."
An oily smile creased Margus's face.  "Exactly," he said.
"I must profess, though, that I have a morbid curiosity what happened to her."
"I'm afraid that's a matter to be settled among my people," Margus replied.  After a moment's thought, he added, "It does affect you, though, so I'll tell you this much.  Some of the Gentry did not have faith in your leadership—I empathize, believe me—and they conspired with one of the guildmasters to remove her.  I believe that your diplomatic envoy delivered her to the drow as a sacrifice.
Incredulously, Larissa said, "Navoy?  I didn't realize he had it in him." 
Margus simply smiled enigmatically.  He knew which Gentry members were involved, but he was not going to give Larissa Hunter all of the information she needed.  Casting doubt on the various Gentry members kept the Gentry from being unified.  Besides, Margus wanted the pleasure of dealing with the offending parties himself.  After all, if an Alliance member was willing to strike against the previous leader, then he would be willing to move against Margus.
The two watched the streets below wordlessly.  The Dweomercrafter's Guild's stone golem effortlessly carted orc bodies toward the fallen walls. "Do you think Turrosh Mak will attempt another push?"
Shaking her head, Larissa said, "I don't think so.  Gnasher Barrock is dead now, and I don't think the Mak would send another general so far from the Pomarj. The cult of the Earth Dragon has been decimated.  I'm mostly concerned about one of our neighbors viewing this as an opportunity.  I have talks planned with Furyondy and Verbobonc to secure an agreement.  I think that word of our victory will improve our relations with the other nations."
"If it's any consolation, I'm actually relieved that the Gentry Council did not oust you before the orcs attacked.  I'm far less a warrior than you."
"No, it's no consolation at all," Larissa retorted. "Now, if you don't have anything to say, I must ask you to leave.  Every minute you stay here, the more nauseated I become."
Bowing, Margus said, "Of course, your Excellency.  Until we meet again."  Margus stepped into the shadows and vanished.
Clutching the railing in annoyance, Larrisa Hunter saw a homeless woman pull a ring off of a corpse's finger.  The woman darted into an alley to hide from prying eyes.  Two dark-cloaked men pulled daggers and followed her into the alley.  Larissa Hunter sighed.  "No matter what happens," she lamented, "things don't really change."